Companies and Markets
Origin Energy boosted by higher gas prices
Angela Macdonald-Smith
573 words
1 May 2018
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
32
English
Copyright 2018. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
Higher prices for both domestic gas and export LNG have boosted Origin Energy's performance at its gas
business in the March quarter, resulting in what chief executive Frank Calabria described as "strong
momentum" for the new Australia Pacific LNG project in Queensland.

While sales of conventional oil and gas sank with the divestment of the Lattice Energy business, revenues
from APLNG were up 27 per cent from a year earlier, at $491.1 million.

Revenues were still 4 per cent softer than in the December quarter, however, and RBC Capital Markets
analyst Ben Wilson described the quarter as a "small miss" on APLNG production and sales.

Still, for the first nine months of 2017-18, sales from APLNG, which reached full production last year after
shipping its first cargo in early 2016, were up 48 per cent at $1.48 billion.

Maintenance work carried out in March on the second LNG train at the $25 billion APLNG project in
Gladstone meant more gas was sold into the domestic market. APLNG still shipped 30 LNG cargoes in the
quarter.

Thanks to rising oil prices, the average price Origin got for LNG rose 13 per cent in the March quarter from
the December period to $US8.10 per million British thermal units, with the further gains in crude prices
pointing to likely stronger prices this quarter.

Spot demand for LNG is also being supported by strong growth in imports by China, where APLNG is a direct
beneficiary given its biggest customer is state-owned Sinopec.

Average domestic gas prices also rose strongly for Origin in the March quarter, up 9 per cent from the
previous quarter to $4.50 a gigajoule.

The increase in Origin's domestic gas prices from the year-earlier quarter was even larger, at 25 per cent,
despite government and regulators saying the east coast gas price is softening. But the average prices for
Origin remain well below the sales prices of $8-$10 a gigajoule cited last week by the national competition
watchdog because of the impact of cheap legacy sales contracts by the retailer.

The rise in the average price is thought to have resulted from the increased sales by APLNG into the
domestic market as a result of the maintenance shutdown of part of the LNG plant, which meant more gas
was sold at the higher, market price.

APLNG chief executive Warwick King noted in April that the venture, which includes ConocoPhillips and
Sinopec, is on track to supply about 30 per cent of east coast demand for gas this year.

Mr King said APLNG has sought expressions of interest from gas users about potential domestic sales for
2019 and beyond.

Origin also reported it received $136 million in the March quarter as APLNG returned funds to shareholders,
confirming figures given by Conoco to its US investors last week.

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Revenues from Lattice, which Origin sold to Beach Energy for $1.585 billion, dropped by more than 60 per
cent to $70.7 million. Mr Calabria said the sale helped Origin to "deliver on our commitment to simplify our
operations and reduce debt".

APLNG production this quarter is to be impacted by a 16-day shutdown at the first train for maintenance
work.

Origin's shares rose 1.4 per cent to $9.75, close to a two-and-a-half year high they reached in January.

Document AFNR000020180430ee5100011

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.