News Highlights: Top Company News of the Day
407 words
1 May 2018
15:00
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
English
Copyright © 2018, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

Australia Broadens Legal Action Against Mining Titan Rio Tinto

Rio Tinto is under scrutiny from officials in the U.S., U.K. and Australia over the handling of coal assets it
purchased in Mozambique for about $4 billion in 2011, but were later sold at just $50 million.

WhatsApp Co-Founder Leaving
Facebook After Dispute Over Ads

Jan Koum, a co-founder of Facebook's WhatsApp unit, is leaving the messaging service after what people
familiar with the matter described as disagreement over putting advertising on its app and frustration over the
confines of working in a big company.

Twitter Says It Sold Data to Cambridge University Researcher

Twitter said it sold data to the Cambridge University academic who had separately shared user data he
gleaned from Facebook with third parties including Cambridge Analytica.

U.S. Jury Convicts Former Autonomy CFO of Fraud

A federal jury found Autonomy's former financial chief guilty of falsifying financial statements and
exaggerating the British software maker's value before its sale to Hewlett-Packard in 2011.

HNA Scuttles Deal for Scaramucci's SkyBridge

Chinese conglomerate HNA Group Co. dropped its pursuit of SkyBridge Capital amid resistance from the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S.

Panasonic Unit Admits Accounting Offense

Panasonic Avionics admitted violating an accounting provision of the main U.S. antibribery law, triggering
payments to authorities of over $280 million.

Justice Department Urges Alternative Remedies in
AT&T-Time Warner Deal

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The Justice Department, making its final case against AT&T's planned acquisition of Time Warner, urged a
judge to consider "alternative" remedies if he chooses not to block the merger outright.

Iran Clamps Down on Telegram App, Blaming It for Unrest

The Iranian regime moved to shut down the messaging app Telegram, highlighting its concern over the
popular platform's role in organizing widespread street protests that have rippled through the country.

Twitter Weighs Letting Publishers Sell Ads Before Their Videos

Twitter is exploring the possibility of allowing publishers to sell preroll video ads that run at the start of their
video clips on the platform.

Arconic to Move Global Headquarters to Virginia

Aluminum producer Arconic will relocate its global headquarters to the Washington, D.C., metro area from
Manhattan. Separately, the company reported better-than-expected first-quarter sales of $3.4 billion.

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 01, 2018 01:00 ET (05:00 GMT)

Document DJDN000020180501ee510008e

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.