Last	updated	09:52	02/05/2018

Wealthy	Australian	buys	more	rural	land	near	Gisborne
CHRIS	HUTCHING
SUPPLIED
The	Waipaoa	River	begins	in	the	hills	of	Waipaoa	Station	and	flows	to	the	sea	south	of	Gisborne.
Wealthy	Australian	investor	Phillip	Colebatch	has	added	to	his	rural	property	holdings	in	the	Gisborne	area	with	the	purchase	of	the
1667	hectare	Waipaoa	Station.
He	is	a	merchant	banker	and	has	been	a	director	of	major	corporates	including	Lend	Lease.
Colebatch,	73,	has	previously	been	resident	in	the	UK,	and	according	to	the	Overseas	Investment	Office	he	is	a	current	resident	visa
holder	who	intends	to	live	in	New	Zealand	indefinitely.
Under	foreign	investment	rules,	his	intention	to	live	here	means	he	was	not	required	to	show	the	investment	in	sensitive	land	was	likely
to	benefit	New	Zealand	-	"this	supports	migrants	in	the	process	of	moving	to	New	Zealand	to	make	it	their	home",	the	OIO	said.
READ	MORE:
*	Chinese	bidder	for	Jericho	Station	seeks	Overseas	Investment	Office	approval	
*	Government	to	tighten	rules	around	selling	land	to	overseas	buyers	
Colebatch's	latest	acquisition	builds	on	earlier	purchases,	the	first	in	2008	when	he	bought	Moanui	Station	($4.5	million),	Te	Hau	Station
($5.5m),	plus	other	properties	inland	and	south	of	Gisborne.
The	Waipaoa	Station	Farm	Cadet	Training	Trust	has	operated	independently	on	the	property	-	the	charitable	organisation	was
established	by	Waipaoa's	former	owners	Rob	Telfer	and	Andrew	MacPherson	in	conjunction	with	other	members	of	the	farming
community.
The	trust	chairman	Ken	Shaw	said	his	group	had	a	10	year	lease	over	the	buildings	it	used.	
For	the	past	10	years	the	trust	has	operated	an	accredited	learning	programme	producing	five	qualified	agricultural	sector	trainees
annually	aged	between	16	and	19-years-old.
OIO	information	reveals	Colebatch's	company	Te	Hau	Station	owns	Te	Hau	Station,	Wheterua	Station	and	other	land	in	Whatatutu.
Te	Hau	Station's	holding	company,	Antipodean	Lands		owns	a	subsidiary,	Moanui	Farm,	which	owns	and	operates	Moanui	Station.	
When	Colebatch	bought	234ha	at	1108	Whatatutu	Road,	Whatatutu,	Gisborne	for	$3.2m	in	2011	he	told	the	OIO	the	land	would	be
used	for	general	farming	and	also	as	a	finishing	and	breeding	unit	rather	than	a	lifestyle	property.
The	latest	purchase,	Waipaoa,	is	an	expansive	sheep	and	beef	station	58	kilometres	north-west	of	Gisborne	with	about	16,500	stock
units	over	87	subdivided	paddocks.
Colebatch	had	been	leasing	the	station	for	the	past	year	before	its	sale,	which	was	handled	by	Bayleys.
Buildings	included	a	huge	10-stand	woolshed,	a	four-bedroom,	two	bathroom	homestead	with	verandah	and	rural	views,	a	10-bedroom
single	persons'	students	quarters	complex	with	its	own	104	square	metre	commercial-grade	kitchen,	dining	room,	and	adjacent
classroom	and	communal	lounge	area,	swimming	pool,	and	three-bedroom	stock	manager's	residence.
-	Stuff

