THE	registers	are	ringing	at	McDonald's	following	the	introduction	of	a	value-for	money
menu	that	is	actually	seeing	people	spend	more.
The	sneaky	ploy	is	paying	dividends	with	global	profits	at	the	burger	giant	jumping	13	per	cent	to
almost	$2	billion.
Macca's	is	also	making	a	motza	from	a	fast	food	innovation	-	premium	burgers	-	pioneered	in	Australia.

McDonald's	president	and	chief	executive	officer	Steve	Easterbrook	said	on	Monday	that	revenue	was
up	5.5	per	cent	to	$US5.1	billion	($A6.8	billion)	in	the	first	quarter	of	2018	with	profits	increasing	13
per	cent	to	$US1.4	billion	($A1.9	billion).
	
POSH	PATTIES
"We	are	satisfying	the	rising	expectations	customers	have	for	the	taste	and	quality	of	our	food	and
greater	convenience	as	they	visit	our	restaurants	or	enjoy	meals	delivered	to	their	homes	and	offices,"
he	said.

Mr	Easterbrook	said	more	premium	burger	offerings	were	part	of	the	reason	behind	the	rise	in	profits
as	customers	swapped	the	standard	Filet-o-Fish	for	fancier	fare.

The	firm	has	historically	used	Australia	as	a	test	bed	for	new	products	and	posh	burgers	are	no
exception.	The	Create	Your	Taste	range,	which	saw	individualised	burgers	served	on	wooden	boards,
was	rolled	out	here	before	many	countries.
Australia	was	also	the	first	place	in	the	world	to	see	Wagyu	beef	burgers	beneath	the	golden	arches.

The	"world	first	limited	edition	burger"	contains	"100	per	cent	Australian-bred	Wagyu	beef	patty	in
between	a	gourmet	bun	(made	to	a	new	recipe),	with	a	specially	created	sauce,	crispy	bacon	strips,
caramelised	onion,	tomato,	lettuce	and	a	slice	of	Coon	cheese
(http://www.news.com.au/lifestyle/food/eat/the-reason-for-these-mysterious-maccas-tents-at-circular-
quay-in-sydney/news-story/e00f46379e61f8a7b3e39563916dc07c)".
Posh	it	may	be,	but	some	have	wondered	how	palatable	it	really	is.
Posting	to	Facebook	group	Fatties	Burger	Appreciation	Society,	which	has	almost	90,000	members,
poster	David	Winch	said	he	was	unimpressed.	(http://www.news.com.au/lifestyle/food/eat/fans-slam-
new-mcdonalds-wagyu-beef-burger-as-too-expensive-and-tasting-more-like-cardboard/news-
story/58bdc737438abf183c6ea4ea0f6ebc9a)
"Patty	cooked	to	death	sometime	last	week	and	presented	with	unmelted	cheese,	tomato,	bacon,	a
crapton	of	wilted	lettuce	and	a	smear	of	nondescript	sauce	on	a	dry,	oversized	bun,"	he	wrote.
The	burger	has	also	come	under	fire	for	not	containing	100	per	cent	Wagyu	beef.
But	the	semantics	over	whether	Macca's	premium	burgers	were	really	premium	hasn't	stopped	people
trying	them.

VALUE	MENU	ENCOURAGES	US	TO	SPEND	MORE
Mr	Easterbrook	said	a	new	US	menu	with	lower-priced	items	was	paying	dividends.	Products	like	soft
drinks,	sausage	wraps	and	triple	cheeseburgers	are	available	at	$1,	$2	or	$3	price	points.
But	far	from	saving	customers	money,	the	lower	priced	items	were	having	the	opposite	effect.
The	McDonald's	boss	said	people	who	use	the	$1	$2	$3	menu	tended	to	purchase	more	items	than
people	who	do	not	order	from	it,	reported	NBC	(https://www.cnbc.com/2018/04/30/heres-why-the-
dollar-menu-is-working-so-well-for-mcdonalds.html).
Once	people	were	in	the	store,	some	were	also	upgrading	to	pricier	patties.
The	popularity	of	premium	burgers	and	its	dollar	value	menu	offset	a	decline	in	its	breakfast	menu.
Fewer	people	were	gobbling	up	egg	McMuffins	worldwide	because	competitors,	such	as	Burger	King
and	Dunkin	Donuts,	had	stepped	up	their	breakfast	game.
Australia's	success	in	predicting	tastebuds	worldwide	has	now	seen	the	country	rewarded.
(http://www.news.com.au/lifestyle/food/eat/mcdonalds-new-restaurant-features-global-menu/news-
story/5b664af629e596501ffc17ebca3fce90)
A	Macca's	Australian	oddity	will	be	offered	at	a	one-off	restaurants	at	the	company's	Chicago
headquarters	showcasing	global	variations	of	its	famous	menu.
The	restaurant	will	feature	Australia's	cheese	and	bacon	loaded	fries,	that's	chips	smothered	in	hot
goo.
Alongside	the	claggy	chips	will	be	the	McSpicy	Chicken	Sandwich	from	Hong	Kong,	the	strawberry
and	chocolate	covered	coconut	McFlurry	Prestígio	from	Brazil	and	the	kale,	tomato,	cranberry	and
chicken	Manhattan	salad	from,	not	the	US,	but	France.

