News
Farm sale raises FIRB query
Andrew Miller
425 words
3 May 2018
The Land
FTLAND
13
English
Copyright 2018 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.
Turmoil at Australia's biggest dairy company, Tasmania's Moon Lake Investments, has raised serious
questions about the role of the Foreign Investment Review Board, say China experts.

A disagreement over governance and spending by Moon Lake Investments' owner, Chinese businessman
Xianfeng Lu saw the company's entire Australian board step down last week.

In addition, the chief executive of Moon Lake's subsidiary company, Van Diemen's Land Company, Evan
Rolley will not extend his contract beyond June 30, this year.

Former Moon Lake deputy chairman Dr David Crean said the board resigned after Mr Lu rejected its advice
on corporate governance and the need for millions of dollars in farm upgrades. University of Tasmanian
senior lecturer in Chinese studies, Dr Mark Harrison, said the issue raised questions about the role of the
FIRB. The board approved Moon Lake's $280million purchase of VDL in 2016.

Dr Harrison said at the time of the purchase, Mr Lu had access to a large amount of credit, dairy consumption
in China had increased sharply and there was a corresponding increase in prices.

"He was looking for overseas acquisitions, and this opportunity came up," Dr Harrison said. "But he made
promises about investment and there are questions about the viability of that."

Mr Lu created Moon Lake specifically to buy VDL.

He promised an additional $100 million investment, over five years, with the aim of increasing job numbers
from 140 to 235.

Dr Harrison said there were also questions about jurisdiction when it came to foreign investment.

"What exactly is the remit of FIRB and the remit of the State government when these types of foreign
investments impact upon local communities? It would seem to me there is a question about exactly how you
get those systems to work better."

Dr Harrison said the FIRB's remit was relatively limited, looking only at the national interest. And Australia
China Business Council agribusiness and food chair Barry White said the troubles at Moon Lake "certainly
raise a lot of question marks" about the role of the FIRB.

"We don't want to make it so restrictive that we turn people away. But there has to be a balance.

"I think the FIRB does have a role to show more interest and more understanding of these transactions," he
said.

Mr White said the case highlighted concerns about the quality of due diligence, carried out by Chinese
investors.

The price Mr Lu paid for VDL was "a big investment in anyone's eyes".

Document FTLAND0020180502ee530002u

Page1of1©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.