Market Wrap - Street Talk
Xcoal cornerstones coal IPO
Sarah Thompson, Anthony Macdonald and Julie-anne Sprague
309 words
9 May 2018
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2018. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
The rubber is starting to hit the road on US-based Xcoal's strategy to take equity positions in Australian coal
miners, with the US miner set to emerge with about 10 per cent of coal play Bounty Mining.

Xcoal kicked the tyres on more than a dozen of the Australian coal mines that have been sold over the past
couple of years but was unable (or in some cases unwilling) to match the prices paid by rival bidders.

Xcoal boss Ernie Thrasher told The Australian Financial Review last month that he was going to change tack
and seek offtake and equity investments in the local coal scene, and Bounty looms as the first in what is
expected to be several deals.

Bounty is seeking to raise $18 million through an IPO later this month which could see it start trading on the
ASX by mid-June, under the plan being hatched by broker PAC Partners.

Funds raised from Xcoal and others will help Bounty revive the Cook Colliery mine it acquired late last year
when Chinese-controlled Caledon Coal went into liquidation.

Sydney-based emerging companies fund Alium Capital is believed to be another investor.

Aside from its equity stake, Xcoal will also be an important offtake partner for Bounty, assuming its coal
meets Xcoal's quality standards.

Coking coal pure-plays are hard to find on the ASX these days, with Australia's coking coal mines dominated
by either diversified miners like BHP, Glencore and Anglo American, or private equity players like Pembroke
Resources, AMCI and EMR Capital, which recently bought Rio's Kestrel mine.

Stanmore Coal, which sells semi-soft coking coal, is one of the few reference points for Bounty, which will
mostly sell higher value hard coking coal.

Document AFNR000020180508ee590001n

Page1of1©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.