Insights: Digital Marketing Leadership Customer Experience Events Magazine Chief Digital Officer Subscribe

twitter

facebook

LinkedIn

CMO

Holden confirms NZ chief to lead local marketing after Harland exits

GM Holden confirms departure of executive director of marketing, Mark Harland, and announces a leadership restructure

Nadia Cameron (CMO)

10 April, 2018 17:10

Tweet

Print

GM Holden has confirmed its New Zealand managing director will take up the A/NZ marketing reins following the departure of Mark Harland from the automotive
business.

Harland left GM Holden this week after spending a little over a year ago as its executive director of marketing. He had originally joined General Motors in 1997
and worked across Europe, the US, China and Singapore, leading as marketing and customer experience director of the GMI Vehicle Sales Service and
Marketing leadership team.

Harland is being replaced by current GM Holden and Isuzu Trucks New Zealand chief, Kristian Aquilina, who will now assume responsibility across all three roles.

(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
Kristian Aquilina

The news comes amid reports that the brand experienced one of its worst local sales months in 20 years in February, according to an article posted on Wheels
magazine. The statement is based on preliminary sale data for new car sales, published by VFACTS.

Harland joined the automotive company in 2016. During his tenure, he’s credited with striking relationships with Surf Life Saving Australia and Mardi Gras and
oversaw Holden’s naming rights sponsorship of the NRL Holden State of Origin and inaugural NRL Holden Women’s Premiership league.

“Mark brought a fresh perspective to Holden during a different period of transition,” said Holden chairman and MD, Mark Benhard, in a statement. “We thank him
for his passion and wish him well on his future endeavours.”

Aquilina has been with the General Motors group for more than 20 years, working across sales, marketing, product management and government relationships.
He was appointed NZ chief in 2015.

Read more Aussie craft beer producer appoints marketing chief

“Under Kristian’s leadership the Holden brand and sales have continued to strengthen in New Zealand,” Bernhard said.  “Kristian’s understanding of product,
marketing, customers and the Australian motoring landscape is second to none. We are looking forward to Kristian advancing the Holden business in Australia.”

Bernhard also stressed the group’s belief that sales were going to improve.

“We’re passionate about our future and confident that our sales will improve. Marketing is a key part to ensuring this,” he said.  

Aquilina also recognised the significant time of transformation for the GM Holden business. “We’re establishing a new nameplate in Equinox and relaunching an
Australian icon in the all-new Commodore,” he commented.

Read more Help us assess the state of the CMO and complete CMO's annual survey

“Plus with our extensive SUV offering and Colorado, we’ve got exceptional products in all the right segments. I’m passionate about Holden and our products –
they are the best we’ve ever had. My job is to bring people on the journey with us.” 

Follow CMO on Twitter: @CMOAustralia, take part in the CMO conversation on LinkedIn: CMO ANZ, join us on
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/CMOAustralia, or check us out on Google+:google.com/+CmoAu   

 

 

Read more: Treasury Wine Estates announces new CMO after Marton departs

Read more Sintras re-appears locally as chief audience and content officer for SBS

Join the newsletter!

Join

Or

Sign in with LinkedIn

Sign in with Facebook

Error: Please check your email address.

Tags: leadershipmarketing careersCMO rolemarketing strategy

Recommended

ADMA managing director resigns after two weeks

Report: YouTube passions run deep and wider for ...

7 lessons AGL’s innovation team learnt when building ...

How MedicalDirector markets to customers naturally averse to ...

Show Comments

Popular

1. CMO profile: The strategy behind Cash Converters brand and customer experience reboot

2. AMEX debuts Aussie iteration of global brand overhaul

3. Budget 2018: Government set to shake-up consumer data rights with $44.6m investment

4. 7 lessons AGL’s innovation team learnt when building a chatbot

5. Report: YouTube passions run deep and wider for parents, millennials, Gen X

Tweets by @CMOAustralia

Related Whitepapers

(cid:127)
(cid:127)
Closing the Loop

Saving Relationships By Effectively Resolving Customer Issues

4 Minutes to DIY Data Exploration

Challenge: Too much feedback and not enough time to dig through it. Goal: Quickly and ...

Using Voice of Employee to Impact CX

Your employees have feedback to share, and more importantly, want to share it.

Understanding the power of employee engagement

The Employee-Customer Equation

Infographic: A Blueprint for success

We have all heard the saying "If you don't plan, you're planning to fail". Nowhere ...

Blog Posts

Will our manners go the same way as texting when robotic servants take over?

Much of the talk in the industry is focused on the limited amount of time that screens have left in our lives.

Katja Forbes

Founder and chief, sfyte

Social purpose: Oxygen for your brand health vitals

If trust is the new currency, then we’re in deep trouble. Here's why.

Carolyn Butler-Madden

Founder and CEO, Sunday Lunch

Customer experience disruption: Healthcare faces a bitter pill

Over the past decade, disruptors such as Amazon, Apple and Australia’s Atlassian have delivered technology enhanced customer experiences, which for the
most part, have improved customers’ lives and delivered unparalleled growth. Can they do the same for healthcare?

Alex Allwood

Principal, All Work Together

Really nice post. Mawazna is also best comparison financial services platform in Pakistan. Which has started in 2015 for your easy life. ...

Mawazna.com

Former eHarmony marketing chief joins telco startup

Read more

I'm really grateful to (dhensie8686@ g m a i l . c o m ). If not for him, I can't boost of a home and a comfortable lifestyle. Some month...

Kammy

Rethinking gamification in marketing

Read more

This is an interesting Development.

Tim Adams, Th. D.

iSelect CEO out, new CMO in as company revises down earnings

Read more

I have a friend from LA, he went to Australia two years ago and said me that it was very cool, but very expensive. People don't earn enou...

Rental24hAustralia

Tourism Australia flexes brand awareness, sets sights on US traveller market

Read more

Its great to hear that companies including JCDecaux, oOh!media, Omnicom and Posterscope Australia have all partnered with Seedooh inorder...

Blue Mushroom Infozone Pvt Ltd

Out of home advertising companies strive for greater metrics and transparency

Read more

Web Events

CMO Webinar | Creating memorable customer experiences: The who, what and how

Lessons from the best: Modern marketing leadership strategy from the CMO50

Latest Podcast

Getting Intimate with CX bonus episode: Louise Eyres on showing customer centricity

In this bonus last episode of this new podcast series, BrandHook MD, Pip Stocks, talks with former ANZ group general manager of marketing, Louise Eyres, talks
about the importance of thinking like a customer and using intuition to solve customer painpoints.

03 October 2017

0:25:57

Play podcast

More podcasts

Sign in

Sign up to gain exclusive access to email subscriptions, event invitations, competitions, giveaways, and much more.

Sign up or Login

About us | Contact us | Privacy Policy | RSS
Copyright 2018 IDG Communications. ABN 14 001 592 650. All rights reserved.
Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of IDG Communications is prohibited.

IDG Sites: CIO | PC World | Computerworld Australia | CSO Online | Techworld | ARN | GoodGearGuide | CIO Executive Council

(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
