Investor buys Keppel Cove
Trish Bowman Trish.Bowman@capnews.com.au
592 words
11 April 2018
Capricorn Coast Mirror
APNCCM
Main
4
English
Copyright 2018 APN Newspapers Pty Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Yuexing Group to redevelop Zilzie site

FOUR years ago respected entrepreneur and businessman Ding Zoe Hong from Jiangzu China travelled to
the Capricorn Coast and fell in love with the area.

Yesterday, Mr Ding formally took possession of his first major investment in the region, Keppel Cove
masterplanned mixed use tourism and residential development 45 minutes from Rockhampton and 25
minutes from Yeppoon on the Capricorn Coast.

Mr Ding said the region had left a deep impression on him and his associates.

“Here you have a beautiful climate, natural resources and lovely landscapes,” he said.

“We have had many discussions with local government and officials and are very impressed with the firm
support we have received.”

Mr Dingsaid now that the sale of the development was complete his team was speaking with international
designers in Australia and China to update the current masterplan that was put in place by former owners
Chris and Rita Dadson.

“We will build high quality hotels, leisure facilities, resort and shopping facilities,” he said.

“We have many innovative training initiatives in China so we look forward to integrating these with the training
initiatives in Australia to offer long-term employment and training for the region.

“We will invest profits back into our investment to ensure its longevity.

“This will become my second home and I have already been telling people in China all about the benefits of
the region.”

Mr Ding said he would still be looking for further opportunities in the region and was very interested in the
beef industry.

Knight Frank Rockhampton and Region principal Pat O’Driscoll who successfully completed the sale of
Keppel Cove to Mr Ding said he had been working with Mr Ding and his associates for the past four years.

Mr O’Driscoll said Mr Ding was invited to visit Rockhampton and the Capricorn Coast by friends for a holiday
and fell in love with our region, weather, natural geographical beauty, clean air and water.

“He enjoyed the fishing and boating trips around Great Keppel Island and has returned to the island four
times,” Mr O’Driscoll said.

“Now four years later after investigating and inspecting all opportunities, his company has completed the
acquisition of Keppel Cove with the intention to upgrade the golf club with hotel components and expand the
resort precinct and continue to develop the residential offering over the coming years.

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“On one earlier trip we discovered this site is considered very good luck as it has a mountain behind leading
straight into the ocean, this offered an added incentive to Mr Ding’s choice of investment.

“Mr Ding also commented that the local councils especially Mayors Ludwig and Strelow and the local
communities have made him feel most welcome and he is excited about the future in our region.”

The development comprises of 215 hectares with substantial infrastructure and improvements completed by
the original developers Chris and Rita Dadson and the subsequent owner Ron Bakir.

It includes an 18-hole golf course, substantial golf club and conference and wedding facility, lakes system and
residential allotments.

Capricorn Enterprise chief executive officer Mary Carroll said “Pat is a wonderful advocate for our destination
and this result is a major positive turning point for international investment in our region.

“His collaboration with local government and Capricorn Enterprise to showcase the best our region has to
offer in marketing collateral and hosted visits has resulted in what we believe will be more international
investment announcements into the future.”

Document APNCCM0020180410ee4b00030

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.