News
Apple is now powered by 100 per cent clean energy
Mark Ludlow
495 words
11 April 2018
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
6
English
Copyright 2018. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
Global technology giant Apple has reached its goal of being powered by 100 per cent clean energy, but the
company is holding fire on investing in any energy projects in Australia.

The California-based company is keen to show it is a good corporate citizen and serious about tackling
climate change. Apple chief executive Tim Cook on Tuesday morning (6am AEST) announced the creator of
the iMac and iPhone had reached its milestone of all its global facilities using 100 per cent renewable energy
sources.

This includes its retail stores, offices, data centres and co-located facilities in 43 countries, including the
United States, the United Kingdom, China and India, according to Apple.

Apple is also using its clout to force its suppliers to embrace renewable energy. The company announced
nine additional manufacturing partners had committed to power all their Apple production with 100 per cent
clean energy, taking the total number of supplies taking part in Apple's green dream to 23.

This will help avoid 1.5 million metric tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions from entering the atmosphere,
says Apple.

"We're committed to leaving the world better than we found it. After years of hard work we're proud to have
reached this significant milestone," Mr Cook said in a statement.

"We're going to keep pushing the boundaries of what is possible with the materials in our products, the way
we recycle them, our facilities and our work with suppliers to establish creative and forward-looking sources
of renewable energy because we know the future depends on it."

Apple's environmental boss, Lisa Jackson, last year signalled the global tech giant was looking at expanding
into Australia's energy market including possible stakes in solar and wind projects as part of a push to reduce
its carbon footprint.

Ms Jackson - the senior vice-president of environment, policy and social initiatives for Apple who reports
directly to Mr Cook - said at the time the company was looking to "move closer to the supply of electricity" in
Australia.

This was more likely to be in the form of a direct stake in an energy project, rather than investing in a new
power plant on its own.

Apple is yet to make a play into the Australian market, but it is keeping its green credentials by procuring
power for its Australian retail stores, corporate offices and co-located data facilities from green energy
schemes supplied by local energy retailers.

Apple's best-known renewable energy project is its new headquarters in Cupertino, California, south of San
Francisco, which opened last year. It is the largest LEED platinum-certified office building in North America.

Apple Park, rumoured to have cost $6 billion for its 12,000 employees, is powered by a 17-megawatt on-site
solar installation as well as 4 megawatts of biogas fuel cells controlled by a microgrid with battery storage.

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Document AFNR000020180410ee4b00006

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.