New owner for label stable
612 words
11 April 2018
The Newcastle Herald
NEHR
English
© 2018 Copyright John Fairfax Holdings Limited.
IN the wake of a $1 billion deal completed last Wednesday, the Hardys, Houghton, Petaluma, Croser, Bay of
Fires, House of Arras, Banrock Station, Amberley, Leasingham and a host other major Australian wine
brands now have a new owner.

The takeover of Accolade Wines, Australia's biggest wine producer and the world's fifth-largest wine company
by volume, was made by US Washington DC-based private equity firm Carlyle Group. The purchase was
from Australia's CHAMP Private Equity, owner of 80 percent of Accolade, and 20 per cent shareholder
Constellation Brands.

CHAMP Private Equity CEO John Haddock said CHAMP was proud of its seven years of Accolade
stewardship in which it set up a New World wine platform with winemaking operations in Australia, New
Zealand, South Africa, the United States and Chile.

It had added premium brands such as Grant Burge, St Hallett, Petaluma and Croser and had boosted
Accolade's production facilities - exemplified by the completion next year of the two biggest bottling,
packaging and distribution centres in the Southern Hemisphere and Europe at Berri in South Australia and
Accolade Park in the UK.

Carlyle, one of the world's largest investment management groups with $231 billion in assets, said it had
been attracted to Accolade by its "great brands, strong market positions and multiple growth opportunities,
particularly in Asian markets".

Accolade exports more than $350 million worth of Australian wine annually and gets more than two-thirds of
its earnings from exports to 140 countries. China, which last year was Australia's most valuable export
market, was clearly a key factor in the Carlyle acquisition.

Accolade Wines traces its origins back to the Hardy family wine company founded in 1853, which became the
powerhouse ASX-listed BRL Hardy company. In 2003 Constellation bought BRL Hardy for $1.1.billion and, hit
by huge debt, a high Australian dollar and a global economic downturn, it was forced to slash staff and sell
wineries and vineyards in 2008.

In 2011 CHAMP paid $290 million for all Constellation's Australian, UK, and South African brands, wineries,
facilities and vineyards.

Accolade's portfolio of brands now comprise Hardys, Bay of Fires, Amberley, Reynella, Goundrey, Yarra
Burn, Renmano, Tatachilla, Croser Petaluma, Leasingham, Stanley, Houghton, Grant Burge, Berri Estate,
Moondah Brook, Momni, St Hallett, Banrock Station, Eddystone Point House of Arras, Starvedog Lane,
Brookland Valley and Knappstein.

THIS beaut Adelaide Hills Region Petaluma 2016 Piccadilly Valley Chardonnay is brassy hued and has
scents of citrus and crushed almonds and elegant white nectarine front-palate flavour. Fig, lemon curd, apple
peel and cashew oak show on the middle palate and steely acid at the finish. It's at Petaluma.com.au and in
fine wine stores. PRICE: $45. DRINK WITH: crab souffle. AGEING: eight years.

RATING: 5 stars

THE Bay of Fires 2016 Tasmania Pinot Noir is ruby red and has 13.5% alcohol, rose petal aromas and
vibrant cherry front-palate flavour. The middle palate shows raspberry, spice, cloves and vanillin oak and

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.minty tannins at the finish. It's from Derwent Valley and Coal River fruit and is at
cellardoor@bayoffires.com.auand in bottle shops. PRICE: $45. DRINK WITH: salmon. AGEING: eight years.

RATING: 4.5 stars

FROM a great Barossa vineyard, the Grant Burge 2016 Filsell Old Vine Shiraz is deep purple and has 14%
alcohol, fruitcake scents and rich, ripe plum front-palate flavour. Morello cherry, dark chocolate, licorice and
nutty oak meld on the middle palate and the finish has dusty tannins. It's ongrantburge.com.au and wine
stores. PRICE: $43. DRINK WITH: olive beef casserole. AGEING: 12 years.

RATING: 5 stars

Document NEHR000020180410ee4b0000n

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.