(PR) Starpharma to present at OTCQX Virtual Investor Conference
842 words
11 April 2018
22:42
PR Newswire
PRN
English
Copyright © 2018 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved.
MELBOURNE, Australia, April 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Starpharma (ASX: SPL, OTCQX: SPHRY) today
announced that as part of its OTCQX investor communications, a pre-recorded presentation by Chief
Executive Officer Dr. Jackie Fairley will be broadcast at VirtualInvestorConferences.com on Thursday, April
12, 2018 at 10:30am (US ET time). The presentation is part of OTCQX's virtual investor conference dedicated
to international companies.

The presentation will provide an overview of Starpharma for new investors; and highlight developments of the
company's VivaGel(R) and DEP(R) portfolios.

Interested parties are able to register at www.VirtualInvestorConferences.com or at the following link:
https://tinyurl.com/0418prepr. An on-demand archive of the presentation will be available for 90 days at
www.VirtualInvestorConferences.com.

About Starpharma

Starpharma Holdings Limited (ASX: SPL, OTCQX:SPHRY), located in Melbourne Australia, is an ASX 300
company and is a world leader in the development of dendrimer products for pharmaceutical, life science and
other applications.

Starpharma's underlying technology is built around dendrimers -- a type of synthetic nanoscale polymer that
is highly regular in size and structure and well suited to pharmaceutical and medical uses. Starpharma has
two core development programs: VivaGel(R) portfolio and DEP(R) drug delivery with the Company
developing a number of products internally and others via commercial partnerships.

VivaGel(R) : Starpharma's portfolio includes women's health products based on VivaGel(R) (SPL7013,
astodrimer sodium), a proprietary dendrimer. VivaGel(R) BV is approved for marketing in the EU and
Australia for bacterial vaginosis (BV). Starpharma has a license agreement with Aspen Pharmacare Australia
Pty Ltd for the sales and marketing of VivaGel(R) BV in Australia and New Zealand. Starpharma has also
developed an antiviral condom which uses VivaGel(R) in the lubricant, which is available in Australia and
Canada under the Lifestyles(R) Dual Protect(TM) brand. Starpharma has a number of license agreements to
market the VivaGel(R) condom in other regions, including China and Japan (Okamoto).

DEP(R) - Dendrimer Enhanced Product(R) : Starpharma's DEP(R) drug delivery platform has demonstrated
reproducible preclinical benefits across multiple internal and partnered DEP(R) programs, including improved
efficacy, safety and survival. Starpharma has two internal DEP(R) products -- DEP(R) docetaxel and DEP(R)
cabazitaxel - in clinical development in patients with solid tumours, and further DEP(R) products approaching
clinical development. Starpharma's partnered DEP(R) programs include a multiproduct DEP(R) licence with
AstraZeneca, which involves the development and commercialisation of two novel oncology compounds, with
potential to add more.

Starpharma.com | Twitter | LinkedIn

Forward Looking Statements

This document contains certain forward-looking statements, relating to Starpharma's business, which can be
identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "promising", "plans", "anticipated", "will",
"project", "believe", "forecast", "expected", "estimated", "targeting", "aiming", "set to", "potential", "seeking to",
"goal", "could provide", "intends", "is being developed", "could be", "on track", or similar expressions, or by

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.express or implied discussions regarding potential filings or marketing approvals, or potential future sales of
product candidates. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results, performance or
achievements expressed or implied by such statements. There can be no assurance that any existing or
future regulatory filings will satisfy the FDA's and other authorities' requirements regarding any one or more
product candidates nor can there be any assurance that such product candidates will be approved by any
authorities for sale in any market or that they will reach any particular level of sales. In particular,
management's expectations regarding the approval and commercialization of the product candidates could
be affected by, among other things, unexpected trial results, including additional analysis of existing data, and
new data; unexpected regulatory actions or delays, or government regulation generally; our ability to obtain or
maintain patent or other proprietary intellectual property protection; competition in general; government,
industry, and general public pricing pressures; and additional factors that involve significant risks and
uncertainties about our products, product candidates, financial results and business prospects. Should one or
more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual
results may vary materially from those described herein as anticipated, believed, estimated or expected.
Starpharma is providing this information as of the date of this document and does not assume any obligation
to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future
events or developments or otherwise.

View original content with
multimedia:
http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/starpharma-to-present-at-otcqx-virtual-investor-conference-
300628080.html

SOURCE Starpharma

/CONTACT: Media: WE Buchan Consulting, Rebecca Wilson, Mob: +61 417 382 391,
rwilson@buchanwe.com.au; Arthur Chan, +61 2 9237 2805, achan@buchanwe.com.au; Starpharma, Dr
Jackie Fairley, Chief Executive Officer, Nigel Baade, CFO and Company Secretary, +61 3 8532 2704,
investor.relations@starpharma.com

/Web site: http://www.starpharma.com

(END)

Document PRN0000020180411ee4b0009i

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.