Pilbara Progresses towards First DSO Revenue
379 words
12 April 2018
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2018, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.
Release date - 11042018

Australian lithium developer, Pilbara Minerals Limited (ASX: PLS) ('Pilbara'), is pleasedto advise that it has
made excellent progress towards achieving first Direct ShippingOre ('DSO') sales from its 100%-owned
Pilgangoora Lithium-Tantalum Project in WA, with first revenue under the Mine Gate Sale Agreement
('Agreement') with Atlas Iron Limited (ASX: AGO) ('Atlas') now imminent.

All conditions precedent to the Agreement with Atlas have been satisfied, including the receipt of the US$3
million pre-payment required to help fund the establishment costs associated with the DSO program.

Mining of DSO material at the Monster Pit is now well advanced, with ore deliveries to the DSO ROM pad at
Pilgangoora having commenced. Atlas is expected to take first delivery of DSO material from Pilgangoora
pursuant to the Agreement during April 2018.

Under the Agreement, Pilbara will deliver a minimum of 1.0 million tonnes of unprocessed run-of-mine
lithium-tantalum material from the Pilgangoora mine to Atlas on a mine gate sale basis, based on a delivery
schedule which is designed to allow Atlas to ship 100,000 tonnes of DSO per month to off-take customers.
Atlas will utilise its existing processing and logistics infrastructure in the Pilbara to crush the material and ship
the DSO to China through its Utah Port shipping facilities in Port Hedland.

The Agreement is expected to deliver a healthy operating cash margin underpinned by an attractive fixed
US$ base price per wet metric tonne of mine gate material sold, subject to adjustments in respect of the final
product specifications shipped and the actual shipping costs realised.

ABOUT PILBARA MINERALS

Pilbara Minerals ('Pilbara' - ASX: PLS) is a mining and exploration company listed on the ASX, specialising in
the exploration and development of the specialty metals Lithium and Tantalum. Pilbara owns 100% of the
world class Pilgangoora Lithium-Tantalum project which is among the largest Spodumene (Lithium Aluminium
Silicate) projects in the world. Pilgangoora is also one of the largest pegmatite hosted Tantalite resources in
the world and Pilbara proposes to produce Tantalite as a by-product of its Spodumene production.

Contact:

Ken Brinsden Tel: +61 (0)8 6266 6266

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

Document ENPNEW0020180412ee4c000a4

Page1of1©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.