Friday 11

May, 2018| 2:54 AM

Menu

Subscribe »

Awards Premium IPOs Data News

Compare Learn Terms About Advertise

Stocks Investing Trading & Technical Analysis Fundamental Analysis

CFDs Forex Futures Options Warrants Margin Lending Financial Planning Super & Retirement Property Personal Finance Commodities Economics

 

Home »

News »

BREAKING NEWS »

News

Bubs charges ahead on goat milk

Bubs Australia's $39 million deal for the NuLac Foods business has helped boost net sales to $5.2 million in the third quarter.

Share |

Text size +

Text size -

Print

By AAP | 12.04.2018 10:32 AM

Baby food supplier Bubs Australia's is charging ahead after the acquisition of goat milk products maker NuLac Foods helped bring about a fivefold increase in the
group's latest quarterly sales figures.

Bubs says third-quarter net sales grew by 422 per cent to $5.2 million, compared to a year ago.

The lift in revenue came from both the Bubs business and NuLac Foods, which completed its first full quarter of trading under Bubs ownership.

Sales of goat milk infant formula were up by 63 per cent.

Bubs bought NuLac for $39 million last November.

"We continue to make solid progress on our strategic journey to increase domestic penetration of our product range, and expand channel capability into China,"
Bubs chief executive Nicholas Simms said in a statement on Thursday.

Bub's third-quarter sales to China rose by 55 per cent.

"Our penetration into China's cross-border e-commerce channel continues to develop, most notably with our entering an international supply agreement with
Chinese online giant JD.com," Mr Simms said.

Bubs said all three stages of its goat milk infant formula are to be sold in Woolworths supermarkets starting this month, and some varieties of organic baby
cereals will start to appear in Woolworths in May.

Chemist Warehouse will start to sell some varieties of Bubs organic baby food pouches in its stores in April.

Bubs said its new-look branding launched last year is being well received by customers and Bubs has100,000 followers on social media.

Bubs shares ended Thursday seven cents, or 9.2 per cent, higher at 83 cents - their highest level in a month.

Archive

Share market rises to three month high

The Australian share market has gained ground for a fourth straight day, due to strong gains by oil and gas producers.

Furious shareholders deal AMP first strike

Shareholders have dealt AMP a first "strike" at its AGM, as the company faced investors for the first time since revelations of misconduct were made public.

China's ZTE says US sanctions have crippled operations

(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
Chinese telecom giant ZTE said its major operations had "ceased" following last month's US ban on American sales of critical technology to the company,
raising the possibility of its collapse.

Macron urges Germany to step up at 'historic moment' for EU

France's President Emmanuel Macron urged Germany to take on the mantle as a leading force...

China inflation under control

Consumer prices rose by 1.8 per cent in the year to April (forecast 1.9 per cent), down from 2.1 per cent in the year to March.

We want you on a spit: AMP shareholders

Angry AMP shareholders want more than apologies from the embattled wealth management company's board.

Aust fuel supply 'never more flexible'

The operator of the one of the country's few remaining oil refineries says Australia's fuel supply has never been more flexible, amid concerns about reserves.

Regional media's $50m fund passes Senate

Regional and small publishers will soon have access to millions in federal government grants after legislation sailed through the upper house.

US ban hits Telstra phone supplier

Telstra has been forced to stop selling some pre-paid branded mobile phones after the Chinese manufacturer was hit by US sanctions.

Income tax plan to be put to the test

A series of opinion polls and consumer confidence readings next week will gauge how the Turnbull government's budget went down with the public.

PLEASE SUPPORT OUR SPONSORS, AUSTRALIA'S LEADING BROKERS:

n

Readers´ most viewed

TheBull latest articles

Articles »

1.Share market rises to three month high

2.Furious shareholders deal AMP first strike

3.China's ZTE says US sanctions have crippled operations

4.Macron urges Germany to step up at 'historic moment'...

5.China inflation under control

6.We want you on a spit: AMP shareholders

TheBull most popular

Articles »

1.Tax perks for share traders

2.How to declare dividends and franking credits on...

3.Relief for Turnbull with win in Bennelong

4.How are CFDs taxed?

5.$A is comfortably higher against $US

6.Gold falls for third session

FatCat latest articles

Articles »

1.We all enter contracts every day, so why are they...

2.How valuable are tax deductions on property really?

3.We Live In An Age Of Energy Abundance

4.14 Things Successful People Do On Weekends

5.Submissions want super tax concessions cut: Treasury

NewPhilosopher latest posts

Articles »

1.NP Writers’ Award XVIII shortlist

2.How to live (like a Stoic)

3.Get a life!

4.New Philosopher Writers’ Award

5.13 questions: Ricky Gervais

Home|

Awards|

Premium|

IPOs|

Data|

News|

Compare|

Learn|

Terms|

About|

Advertise|

Full version

© Copyright The Compare Group Pty Ltd. All rights reserved.

About us|

Advertise|

Contact us|

Privacy policy|

Terms of use|

Powered by ACUBENS

(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
(cid:127)
