Boss Magazine
Hey, Small Spender
James Eyers
3,432 words
13 April 2018
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
14
English
Copyright 2018. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
Nick Molnar, head of the hugely successful buy-now-pay-later service Afterpay,knows how to make
Millennials open their wallets.

A nthony Eisen was working late into the night in the front room of his Rose Bay home in Sydney’s eastern
suburbs, restructuring the assets of the Guinness Peat Group, when he noticed another night owl beavering
away in the front room of a house across the street.

It was Nick Molnar. The year was 2012, and the commerce student at the University of Sydney was stuffing
packages with jewellery from St Michel Internationale, the store run by his parents, Michele and Ron,
atWynyard Station.

The curious Eisen approached Molnar on the footpath one morning. “He literally came up to me while I was
taking a pile of boxes to the post office and said,‘I see your light on every night. I don’t mean to pry, but what
do you do?’” Molnar recalls.

The youngster explained that he was distributing the family jewellery on eBay.

Eisen was transfixed and decided to open his business networks to the young digital salesman; the
well-connected deal maker was confident Molnar had what it took to become a successful entrepreneur.

Eisen introduced Molnar to JohnWylie, the high profile head of corporate advisory at financial advisory and
asset management firm Lazard.Wylie promptly directed Molnar to Mark Carnegie, the Paddington-based
venture capitalist. After six months of tutelage by Carnegie, Molnar was making more money selling bracelets
and rings for $150 a pop than he would have done working as a first-year investment banker at Lazard.

Carnegie told Molnar he had an opportunity and should get out and build a business. To give him confidence
to take the leap, Carnegie said he’d hold Molnar’s job for six months, in case things didn’t work out.

Despite the growth, Molnar was scratching his head about one disappointing metric: out of 100 visitors to the
website, only one made a purchase. That got him asking the same questions as other retailers trying to
survive in the cutthroat, Amazon-dominated world of e-commerce: how can I convert more visitors to sales?
How can I drive the average order up?

How can I increase repeat purchases?

Eisen and Molnar caught up a lot in the first half of 2015, often around Eisen’s kitchen table.

KEY PSYCHOLOGICAL INSIGHT Molnar was adamant that Millennial customers would be keen to pay for
things in instalments, to smooth out their payments.

Conversations with contemporaries revealed an aversion to credit.

New technologies could sequence payments, providing instant gratification to the customer while also
appealing to their sense of restraint.

Page1of5©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“I’ve got this idea,” Molnar said to Eisen. “It’s a customer-centric service for Millennials that can help them
spend responsibly and also help retailers sell more stuff. “It’s called Afterpay.”

It is a deceptively simple concept. Unique in the marketplace when it was launched in mid2015, Afterpay is
based on an insight into the psychology of the spending brain: Millennial customers appear to be more willing
to buy if they can pay $50 four times rather than paying $200 once.

Afterpay pays the retailer for the goods and takes a quarter of the purchase price from the customer, whose
debit or credit card has been linked up to the service (85 per cent are debit cards). The customer pays the
remaining three-quarters in three instalments paid fortnightly, for a six-week payment cycle.

If the customer pays on time, they pay nothing more than the price tag. Fees are charged for late payments.
The retailer pays a fee of between 4 per cent and 6 per cent of the sale to Afterpay.

“It was founded on a belief that if you could break down the price and give people more flexibility, it would be
perceived as a discount,” Molnar says. “Maybe it was as simple as being a Millennial; I just knew it felt right.”

The interest-free model has been hugely popular; growth in customer and retailer numbers has been
explosive. In less than three years, Afterpay has attracted 1.5 million consumers, and 12,000 retailers.
Annualised sales are $2 billion, and growing. The company’s name is now used as a verb.

A whopping 25 per cent of all online retail apparel transaction volumes in Australia – and 8 per cent of all
online retail – is being paid for using the platform.While its roots are in fashion, Afterpay is expanding to other
retail sectors, from goods to services, and from e-commerce into physical stores. Its smartphone app,
launched in 2017, has been downloaded by 1 million people, creating a community of shoppers who are
increasingly using Afterpay as a directory to determine where to shop.

Afterpay makes about 80 per cent of its revenue from retailers while 20 per cent comes from late fees. Late
payers are shut out of the platform. So unlike revolving credit card facilities, once customers are late, they
can’t accumulate more debt.

“Traditional finance is built on making money from the customer,” Molnar continues.

“But we said we wanted to be unashamedly customer-centric, so we will charge the retailer a fee.What we do
isn’t about finance, it is about retail.”

Afterpay says more than 15 per cent of all Australian Millennials, the cohort now aged between 18 and 36,
are its customers.

They appear loyal; more than 90 per cent are returning to use the service each month. One user, a female in
her 20s, says she uses Afterpay to pay for the odd luxury and it makes her feel better about making a
purchase. “I can afford a $200 dress,” she says. “I just can’t justify it.”

Afterpay arrives at a time when other retail payments operations at the point of sale are proliferating. Other
“buy now, pay later” offerings, such as Openpay and ZipPay, are in the market, while there are also new
credit products, like ZipMoney.

Meanwhile, global technology giants such as Apple, Samsung and Google’s Android are offering digital
wallets linked to payments cards on their smartphones. Global card schemes fromVisa and Mastercard are
lifting innovation, as Chinese e-commerce giants such as Tencent and Alibaba also push into payments.

But while an array of new payments options are emerging, it has been Afterpay’s rapid growth that is making
seasoned bankers nervous, as they fret about a new brand standing between both their retail and merchant
customers.

“Afterpay’s growth has just been phenomenal, it’s really taken us by surprise,” says head of business banking
at one of the big four banks. “We have been trying to work out what is driving it.”

DELIVERY AND RESULTS When BOSS visits Afterpay in the trendy Sydney suburb of Surry Hills on a
Friday afternoon in February, the Red Hot Chili Peppers are pumping on a sound system as a set of Technics
vinyl decks sits idle in the centre of the open-plan office. The foyer stairwell is adorned with graffiti.

A growler ofYoung Henrys sits on one of the programmer’s desks (presumably filled with water, hydration for
the day’s coding).

Adjacent is a wall of motivational values about hard work and customer centrism. The glass wall of the
conference room is adorned with hundreds of logos of some of the biggest retail brands in the country.

Page2of5©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Afterpay has 50 staff in Sydney and another 200 in Melbourne; Molnar says culture is a product of delivery
and results. It’s Eisen who handles many of the day-to-day business issues, as Molnar focuses on sales and
marketing, and fronts retailers and customers; realising his own limitations, Molnar says his relationship with
Eisen is one of blind trust.

Crucial to Afterpay’s early success has been the experienced, steady banking hands that Molnar has had put
around him. One of them is David Hancock, formerly an investment banker at Citi and JP Morgan and an
institutional banker at Commonwealth Bank, before he joined Tower Insurance as CEO.

Eisen knew Hancock well because Guinness Peat Group had a large investment in Tower.

“If we don’t get the foundations right now, it will topple over in the future,” Hancock says about the philosophy
of staffing a growth company.

Hancock says he’s not surprised instalments have been so popular among customers as a method of
payment, pointing to the initial public offerings ofTelstra and Commonwealth Bank – deals that he worked on
as an investment banker – where instalments became a popular way to pay for new shares, not to mention
layby payments used by traditional retailers. “What is old has become new,” he says.

“It resonates with Millennials who can afford to pay, but who want the ability to budget and manage their
payments over a short period of time. They don’t want to be on a revolving credit product.”

When Hancock first went to National Australia Bank to seek funding for Afterpay in August 2015, he asked to
see the institutional banking team, even though the platform had fewer than 10 retailers and 2000 customers.

NAB’s frontline business bankers also saw the potential. After extensive due diligence, including on
responsible lending obligations, NAB provided $20 million to Afterpay. Eighteen months later, the facility has
increased to $380 million, and Afterpay is integrated into NAB’s retail banking application.

Eisen says he had no particular desire to be an ASX-listed company, but the float in 2016 became necessary
as a result of the fast growth, need for capital and lack of local venture capital opportunities. “There was some
trepidation but not a whole lot of alternatives for us, either.”

REGULATORY RISKS Some of those difficulties have presented themselves in recent months, as the
number of Afterpay shares that have been sold short on the market has spiked, and the sharp growth in
customer numbers has attracted the interest of the corporate regulator.

Under national credit laws, Afterpay’s buy-now-pay-later offering is not considered a credit product because it
does not charge interest. Confusingly, Afterpay was awarded an Australian Credit Licence in 2016, but this
doesn’t relate to its current product offering.

It applied for an ACL for flexibility should it want to issue an interest-charging product in the future, not
because there was uncertainty about the present law. Now it has scaled up its buy-now-pay-later concept, the
licence is not likely to be used.

Nonetheless, the stock appears sensitive to regulatory risk. Its shares fell by 5 per cent when The Australian
Financial Review’s Street Talk column reported in November that the Australian Securities and Investments
Commission was asking questions about the space.When the first-half-year results were released in February
there were several questions about regulation. Then in March, the sales trading desk at Credit Suisse
released a note saying the company didn’t conduct credit checks on new customers, was similar to a payday
lender and should require a credit licence. The stock fell by more than 11 per cent in a few days.

Afterpay rejects any suggestion it does not have checks on repayment capability of customers joining up, and
says it is wrong to compare the model to payday lending.

While it requests standard information when new customers sign up – name, email address, phone number,
residential address, date of birth and source of funds – the fraud and repayment risk of customers is analysed
at the time of every transaction, using proprietary technology (developed by Touchcorp, another GPG
company, which Afterpay acquired last year).

This involves hundreds of attributes – including what device the customer is on, the product being bought, the
location and merchant system data relating to purchase – which determine whether transactions might be
fraudulent or are being sought by customers with past bad payment behaviour or insufficient funds.

The company says it declines about 30 per cent of attempted transactions at point of sale.

“Regulation is constantly evolving, so we are conscious of it being about dialogue and engagement. But the
legislation is very clear that we are not a credit product as defined by the NCCP,” Hancock says, referring to
the National Consumer Credit Protection Act.

Page3of5©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“Afterpay is for life’s little extras and not for large one-off purchases. New customers start off on small
purchases, and the more they prove themselves to us, the more flexibility we give them.We are not saying to
the firsttime customer,‘Go and spend’. Almost 90 per cent of monthly transactions are from repeat customers,
which is only possible with a strong record of customer repayment.”

ASIC declined requests from BOSS to explain its interest in “buy now, pay later” generally or Afterpay in
particular. Its senior executive leader for deposit-takers, credit and insurers, Michael Saadat, said in
November the regulator is engaging with industry participants and consumer groups and collecting data “to
determine the size and demographics of the industry and participants, as well as to identify any consumer
harms”.

Regulatory sources say ASIC might be concerned if customers are being encouraged to spend more than
they can afford, if underage customers were involved, or if customers are signing up to several
buy-nowpay-later schemes at the same time.

USERS WARY OF DEBT Bell Potter analyst Lafitani Sotiriou says it’s not surprising ASIC is looking at the
model.

“Obviously they have a role to ensure there is consumer protection and there is no predatory behaviour, and
to make sure the products stand up. Just because they are looking at a sector, doesn’t mean they are going
to find anything wrong,” he says.

“Afterpay could work with the regulators if there was an issue, but I can’t see what the issue is at this stage.
There has to be a credible penalty for non-payment, otherwise there is no disincentive to miss your
payments.”

The initial late payment fee is $10, and a further $7 is added if the payment remains unpaid seven days after
the due date (up to a maximum of $68). In an attempt to get on the front foot against its detractors, Afterpay
has hired AlphaBeta Advisors to study the financial profile of its customers.

The data consultants studied a random selection of 140,000 Afterpay customers, including their transactions,
balances, fees and charges, and linked this with external data from credit bureaus to learn about their
financial behaviour and answer the burning questions about the company: who are the customers, why are
they using it, what are their financial circumstances, and what impact does Afterpay have on them?

Andrew Charlton, AlphaBeta director, says he thought Afterpay might be just another payments option when
he first heard of the company. But after studying its users, he says the results have surprised him.

The total personal debt of Afterpay users is less than the general population. Eighty per cent of customers
say they use it as a budgeting tool.

The rollout has been customer driven: 86 per cent of users told Charlton the availability of Afterpay affects
their decision to purchase, while 36 per cent say the availability of Afterpay is important to their choice of
retailer. The research also revealed 93 per cent of Afterpay purchases don’t incur any late fees, while 78 per
cent of Afterpay users have never paid a late fee of any kind.

AlphaBeta studied the 1 per cent of Afterpay users who pay the most late fees and found they have the
lowest outstanding balances and purchase values, and late fees represented relatively small amounts.

“People are using it for small discretionary purchases and realise they might have a small unexpected
purchase coming up in a week or two and are using this to smooth out their small discretionary expenses, so
they don’t sail too close to the wind,” Charlton says.

“But they don’t let you accrue big fees, because the minute you accrue just one fee, you are off the system
until your account is back in order. It’s very hard to get into financial trouble with Afterpay.”

Sceptics are also watching credit quality like hawks. At the February half-year results, bad debts were
reported as 0.7 per cent of underlying sales. Its most expensive customers are new ones, before the platform
records a picture of their spending habits. But half of customers have an outstanding balance less than $300,
and 90 per cent have a balance of less than $500.

CONSUMERMOVEMENT The incredible growth of Afterpay provides some lessons for the nation’s
pressured retailers. One of these is Millennials’ desire for empowerment.

OnValentine’s Day this year, about 1000 retailers offering Afterpay participated in a “flash sale” that gave
special discounts to Afterpay customers.

Page4of5©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.“We have created a consumer movement and we are creating customer events,” Molnar says. “We have
been great at building a fear of missing out among retailers worried about falling behind their competitors, and
that has allowed us to scale. The idea was how do we use our customers as our sales reps.”

Afterpay’s app became the No.1 on Apple’s App Store 48 hours after its launch last year and theWe Love
Afterpay Facebook group has 250,000 followers, but social media’s ability to power growth really became
apparent 18 months ago, when Afterpay reached a quarter of a million customers.

Molnar decided to launch a campaign asking customers: “Help us help you.” In a call to arms, users were
encouraged to hashtag their favourite retail brands #afterpay and ask them to turn the service on. The
campaign went viral. “Retailers were ringing me to say: ‘You have to turn this off, we can’t deal with normal
customer inquiries because your customers are flooding our customer service.’

So we just kept amping it up.”

When fashion brand Mimco went live with the platform, Molnar says customers felt like they had made it
happen. “So now it’s theirs – and then they shop. Because of that feeling of empowerment, the affinity the
customers have towards us is incredible.We speak to Millennials how they want to be spoken to.”

DEAL WITH WESTFIELD Afterpay has spent less than $100,000 on advertising. But with increasing risk
around responsible lending, it may need to take more control of messages sent by its retail clients
encouraging customers to use the service.

Marketing spending may also rise as the company pursues an aggressive growth strategy, including targeting
more in-store business. It has recently done a deal with Westfield to promote it to tenants. Molnar has global
ambition and recently secured an $18.8 million investment from Matrix Capital, the US venture fund with
experience in scaling early stage businesses.

“Online fashion here is $3.5 billion, online fashion in the US is $US60 billion,” says Molnar. “If we stay
focused and execute to our playbook it is a great opportunity for the business. There is nothing really like us
in the US market.”

But Afterpay can’t lose focus on Australia.

TobiasYao, senior equity analyst atWilson Asset Management, which bought Afterpay shares in the float,
says: “To take it to the next level in Australia, they need to continue to show success in the in-store
environment.

“If they can replicate what they have done online in-store, which may take longer, that’s the next stage of
growth, given the in-store opportunity is much larger than online.”

Eisen says he feels like the company has tapped a Millennial desire for instantaneous gratification, along with
a preference for budgeting over debt accumulation. “I am excited, but we are also really focused on doing
things in the right way,” he says. “We have grown extremely quickly, but still iteratively and profitably.

“The board and the team feel like we have the ability to be an enduring player in the global retail scene and
what is absolutely imperative is that we don’t cut corners, and keep focused on the customer.That might
sound trite but we are trying to focus on what the customer need is, and if we can keep resolute focus on that,
the market opportunity is massive.”

Just six years after Eisen spotted him across the road stuffing packages for eBay, Molnar says he is still
pinching himself.

“But people like me and Anthony are never complacent. We are always talking about what more we can
do.We believe this is a once in a lifetime opportunity.”

Document AFNR000020180412ee4d00024

Page5of5©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.