Engineering - Geological Engineering; Studies from University of Queensland Have Provided New
Information about Geological Engineering (The role of sodium sulfide in the flotation of pyrite
depressed in chalcopyrite flotation)
461 words
16 April 2018
Journal of Engineering
JOENG
4272
English
© Copyright 2018 Journal of Engineering via VerticalNews.com
2018 APR 16 (VerticalNews) -- By a News Reporter-Staff News Editor at Journal of Engineering -- A new
study on Engineering - Geological Engineering is now available. According to news reporting out of Brisbane,
Australia, by VerticalNews editors, research stated, "In copper-gold flotation plants, pyrite which is depressed
in copper flotation is often floated subsequently with the addition of sodium sulfide (Na2S) to recover the
associated gold. For the first time, this study investigated the role of Na2S responsible for the flotation of
pyrite depressed in chalcopyrite flotation through flotation tests and Cyro-XPS (X-ray photoelectron
spectroscopy) analyses."

Financial supporters for this research include Australian Research Council (ARC), Newmont USA Ltd,
Newcrest Mining Ltd, China Scholarship Council.

Our news journalists obtained a quote from the research from the University of Queensland, "It was found
that the application of Na2S improved pyrite flotation to the same extent as the application of PAX and the
combination of Na2S and PAX further increased pyrite recovery. It is interesting that PAX and Na2S
promoted pyrite flotation through different mechanisms. PAX reduced the hydrophilic metal oxidation species
and adsorbed on pyrite surface, resulting in the flotation of depressed pyrite. Unlike PAX, Na2S increased the
hydrophobicity of pyrite and pyrite flotation by forming elemental sulfur and polysulfide on pyrite surface."

According to the news editors, the research concluded: "The application of PAX and Na2S at the same time
further enhanced the hydrophobicity of pyrite and pyrite flotation as a result of the combined actions of PAX
and Na2S."

For more information on this research see: The role of sodium sulfide in the flotation of pyrite depressed in
chalcopyrite flotation. Minerals Engineering, 2018;119():93-98. Minerals Engineering can be contacted at:
Pergamon-Elsevier Science Ltd, The Boulevard, Langford Lane, Kidlington, Oxford OX5 1GB, England.
(Elsevier - www.elsevier.com; Minerals Engineering - www.journals.elsevier.com/minerals-engineering/)

Our news journalists report that additional information may be obtained by contacting Y.J. Peng, University of
Queensland, Sch Chem Engn, Brisbane, Qld, Australia. Additional authors for this research include X.M.
Chen and Z. Cao.

The direct object identifier (DOI) for that additional information is:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mineng.2018.01.029. This DOI is a link to an online electronic document that is either
free or for purchase, and can be your direct source for a journal article and its citation.

Keywords for this news article include: Brisbane, Australia, Australia and New Zealand, Geological
Engineering, Engineering, Sodium Sulfide, Chemicals, University of Queensland.

Our reports deliver fact-based news of research and discoveries from around the world. Copyright 2018,
NewsRx LLC

Document JOENG00020180416ee4g0026x

Page1of1©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.