BusinessJournal
Last-gasp bid to revive U2 with buyers in wings
GIUSEPPE TAURIELLO
684 words
17 April 2018
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
24
English
© 2018 News Limited. All rights reserved.
OFFSHORE, local and interstate groups are circling the site of a stalled apartment project in Adelaide’s CBD
as its former developer enters a race against time to regain control of the project.

While several parties are in due diligence for the Waymouth St site, the directors of Runtong Investment and
Development are in talks with major creditors and builder Built Environs in a bid to avoid liquidation and
complete construction of the $60 million project.

After falling into administration last month, Runtong’s directors Jin Liang and Yong Liu have put forward a
deed of company arrangement (DOCA) proposal, vowing to repay most creditors by June 30 this year and to
enter a payment plan with mortgagee CEG Securities, which is owed almost $30 million.

The proposal requires the approval of major creditors and relies on the proceeds from a sale of land in China
– the details of which remain confidential until settlement next month, the directors say.

However, as negotiations around the sale of the Waymouth St site enter their final stages, it appears their
last-ditch effort may have come too late.

CEG director Jim Ventrice said he was open to the proposal but believed a sale of the Waymouth St property
would result first, effectively ending the directors’ hopes of reclaiming ownership.

“They’re in China continuing the sale of the Chinese property to complete the U2 project but we can’t wait any
longer and so we’ve gone to market,” he said.

“I have agreed to accept what the directors have offered, however it’s whoever comes first. Either way the
money will come in, either from the directors or another source.

“I believe the site will be sold prior to them achieving what they have proposed.” Colliers International director
Oliver Totani, who is leading the sale campaign, said inquiries had been fielded by local, interstate and
offshore developers, with a short-list entering the final stages of negotiations.

“It’s a complicated deal, with many moving parts,” he said. “However, the site’s location, its value proposition
and de-risking nature of the development approval and pre-sales is likely to see us enter into an exclusive
arrangement very shortly. We’re pretty confident that we’ll get a result.” Runtong – an offshoot of Datong
Australia – called in administrator Worrells after failing to pay creditors including Built Environs, which walked
off the U2 site in December.

In his latest report to creditors, Worrells’ Nick Cooper suggested the company may have been trading while
insolvent since June 30, 2017.

An investigation into claims from creditors that the company’s directors had misappropriated company funds
had not commenced, he said, due to a lack of available records.

Mr Liang has previously denied using Datong funds “for anything other than Datong business”.

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Speaking after last week’s second meeting of creditors, which was adjourned for 45 business days, Mr
Cooper said he was preparing a report for ASIC regarding the company’s failure to maintain basic books and
records.

“What is unusual was there wasn’t any creditors ledger at all, there were certain records but they’re obviously
not in English, they’re in Chinese, and there are some financial statements but they’re historical – 30 June
2016 was the last external financial statements prepared,” he said.

“At the moment we’re not supporting it (DOCA) because we haven’t seen the evidence that they (Runtong
directors) can meet the preconditions and reach agreements with all these parties, but we don’t know what
can happen over the next 45 days.

“If they can convince us they do have agreements with all the parties and can raise the necessary funds to
pay unsecured creditors in full then we would likely change our opinion.”According to Mr Cooper’s report,
Built Environs is owed $5.2 million and secured creditor NAB is owed more than $2 million. Unsecured
creditors are unlikely to receive any dividend in the event Runtong enters liquidation. Built Environs did not
return calls.

Document ADVTSR0020180416ee4h0000h

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.