China buys nearly $800m of Australian wine in new record
329 words
17 April 2018
Nikkei Report
NKRP
English
© Copyright 2018. Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. All rights reserved.
FUMI MATSUMOTO, Nikkei staff writer

SYDNEY -- Australian wine exports to China hit an all-time high, rising 51% to more than 1 billion Australian
dollars ($777 million) in the 12 months through March, thanks in part to a tariff-cutting free trade agreement
that came into effect in 2015.

Australian wine exports as a whole grew 16% on the year to A$2.65 billion, with Chinese imports counting for
roughly 40% of that figure, according to data released Monday by Wine Australia, a government agency that
promotes the country's wine industry. The Chinese figure includes Hong Kong and Macau.

Chinese tariffs on Australian wine fell again in January as part of the trade deal and are slated to disappear in
January 2019. That will let Australian imports compete head to head against French and Italian wines, which
are popular in China, according to Wine Australia CEO Andreas Clark.

China buys the most Australian wine by value, with the U.S. coming in second and the U.K. third. But China
lags the U.K. on a volume basis, indicating that Chinese consumers prefer pricier wines from Down Under.

Most of China's 2016 wine imports on a value basis came from France, followed by Australia, according to
the Australian Trade and Investment Commission. Italy, Chile and Spain were next on the list.

The U.S.-China trade clash has given Australian vineyards an opening to grow their Chinese market share.
China recently slapped tariffs on American wine in retaliation for U.S. duties on Chinese aluminum and steel.

Investors are betting on the future success of Australian winemakers in China. China's leading listed
winemaker, Yantai Changyu Pioneer Wine, bought an 80% stake in South Australia's Kilikanoon Estate in
December. U.S. private-equity fund Carlyle Group reportedly reached a deal this month to buy Accolade
Wines, Australia's second-largest winemaker, for A$1 billion.

Document NKRP000020180417ee4h00009

Page1of1©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.