Our	network

MENU

Log	In

-

BUSINESS COMPANIES COMMERCIAL	REAL	ESTATE

City	fringe	office	markets	shine

By	Simon	Johanson
17	April	2018	—	1:51pm

City	fringe	office	markets	in	Sydney	and	Melbourne	are
outshining	their	respective	CBD	centres	in	deal-making	and
capital	growth,	with	two	buildings	changing	hands	for	a
combined	$175.5	million.

A A
A

Listed	Propertylink	Group	has	signed	an	$82	million	heads	of	agreement	to	purchase	a	six
storey	office	at	1-3	Fitzwilliam	Street	in	Parramatta,	one	of	the	best	performing	office	markets
in	the	country.

At	the	same	time,	Abacus	Property	Group	and	Singapore-listed	Wing	Tai	Holdings	have	put	their
foot	on	an	eight-level	office	in	Melbourne’s	leafy	St	Kilda	Road	boulevard,	paying	$95.38
million.

Propertylink	said	it	signed	a	non-binding	heads	of	agreement	with	Raffles	Assets	Australia,	a
subsidiary	of	Singapore-listed	Raffles	Education	Corporation.	The	deal	is	subject	to	due
diligence	by	Propertylink,	approval	by	the	Foreign	Investment	Review	Board	and	approval	of
REC's	shareholders.

The	Fitzwilliam	Street	building	has	net	lettable	area	of	9,782	square	metres	and	is	part-leased
to	another	REC	subsidiary,	the	Raffles	College.

464	St	Kilda	Road.

464	St	Kilda	Road.

In	Melbourne,	the	St	Kilda	Road	purchase	follows	Abacus’	stated	investment	philosophy	of
concentrating	on	city	fringe	assets	in	gentrifying	areas	which	appeal	to	millennials	and	have
long-term	growth	prospects.

The	property	is	Wing	Tai	Holdings’	second	Australian	purchase	after	it	first	mooted	making	a
foray	Down	Under	as	early	as	2000,	a	desire	it	eventually	executed	in	a	2016	deal	to	buy	a
seven-level	car	park	in	Melbourne's	Flinders	Street	for	more	than	$31.5	million.

Melbourne’s	St	Kilda	Road	office	precinct	is	undergoing	a	once-in-a-generation	property
transformation	as	multiple	residential	towers	replace	old	office	stock	and	a	new	underground
Domain	Station	is	built,	part	of	the	city’s	$11	billion	metro	rail	project.

The	shift	from	offices	to	homes	has	boosted	the	capital	values	and	occupancy	of	remaining
stock.

Parramatta,	with	zero	vacancy	in	prime	stock,	is	Sydney's	fastest	growing	office	market.

The	Parramatta	office	vacancy	rate	has	fallen	to	3	per	cent	as	at	January	2018,	down	from	4.3
per	cent	six	months	prior,	according	to	Knight	Frank’s	latest	Parramatta	Office	Market	Brief
research	report.

The	vacancy	rate	is	well	below	the	10-year	average	of	7.5	per	cent	and	is	at	its	lowest	point
since	the	series	began	in	1990,	according	to	Knight	Frank’s	Head	of	Research	&	Consulting
Australia,	Ben	Burston.

Savills	Australia’s	most	recent	National	Office	Quarter	Time	report	lists	a	spike	in	capital
growth	for	St	Kilda	Road	of	19.3	per	cent	over	the	year	to	March	only	surpassed	by	Parramatta
in	Sydney	which	recorded	a	sharp	36.8	per	cent	rise	in	the	same	period.

Vacancy	in	Australia’s	two	key	CBD	office	markets,	Sydney	and	Melbourne,	is	at	historic	lows
around	4.6	per	cent.

The	latest	Dexus	Office	Demand	Barometer	remains	in	positive	territory	with	office	take-up
improving	in	the	March	quarter	on	the	back	of	absorption	of	7000	square	metres.

Leasing	demand,	typically	subdued	between	December	and	March,	was	also	stronger.

The	St	Kilda	Road	office	was	purchased	under	a	sale	and	leaseback	arrangement	with	the
vendor,	the	Victorian	Automobile	Chamber	of	Commerce.

Abacus	has	been	a	particularly	active	player	of	late.	Last	month	it	put	The	Village	Bacchus
Marsh	shopping	centre	in	regional	Victoria	up	for	sale	with	a	$70	million	price	tag.

Earlier	this	year	it	swooped	on	an	Abbotsford	office	in	Melbourne’s	inner-east	leased	to
Computershare,	paying	Chinese	developer	LYZ	Property	Group	$93.5	million	for	the	property

after	they	had	purchased	it	18	months	earlier	for	the	“lucky”	sum	of	$88,888,888.

At	the	same	time,	Abacus	scooped	up	an	another	city	fringe	office	in	Sydney’s	Alexandria	at	11
Bowden	Street	for	$48.85	million.

VACC	staff	occupy	about	a	third	of	available	space	in	the	St	Kilda	Road	building	with	the
remainder	leased	to	other	tenants	on	a	weighted	average	lease	expiry	of	2.4	years.

Wing	Tai	and	Abacus	beat	off	competitors	including	private	developer	Salta	Properties	and
billionaire	Lindsay	Fox	who	owns	a	nearby	tower	at	493	St	Kilda	Road	that	is	set	to	be
converted	to	luxury	homes.

License	this	article

COMMERCIAL	REAL	ESTATE

SALES

Simon	Johanson

Property	Editor	at	The	Age	and	BusinessDay	journalist	for	Fairfax's	theage.com.au,	smh.com.au,
watoday.com.au	and	brisbanetimes.com.au.

MORNING	&	AFTERNOON	NEWSLETTER
Delivered	Mon–Fri.

Your	email	address

SIGN	UP

By	signing	up	you	accept	our	privacy	policy	and	conditions	of	use

OUR	SITES

WAtoday
The	Sydney	Morning	Herald
The	Age
Brisbane	Times
The	Canberra	Times
The	Australian	Financial	Review
Domain
Traveller
Good	Food
Executive	Style
The	Store	by	Fairfax
Drive
Adzuna
RSVP
Essential	Baby
Essential	Kids
Weatherzone

CLASSIFIEDS

Commercial	Real	Estate
Oneflare
Nabo

WATODAY

Contact	&	support
Advertise	with	us
Newsletters
Accessibility	guide
Sitemap

FAIRFAX	MEDIA

Photo	sales
Fairfax	syndication
Fairfax	events
Fairfax	careers
Conditions	of	use
Privacy	policy
Press	Council

Copyright	©	2018

