PowerChina makes first move into Australian wind power
273 words
18 April 2018
Asharq Al-Awsat (English Edition)
ASHAL
English
© 2018, Asharq Al-Awsat (English Edition), All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
POWERCHINA Resources Ltd is making its first move into the Australian renewables market with the
acquisition of an 80% stake in the Cattle Hill Wind Farm development project in Tasmania.

PowerChina Resources is the overseas investment arm of the Power Construction Corporation of China Ltd,
one of China`s biggest multinationals.

The seller is another Chinese company, developer Goldwind Capital Australia, which will retain the remaining
20% stake in the project. Australian law firm Allens collaborated with Linklaters to advise on all aspects of the
deal in Australia and China, including legal due diligence and transaction documents.

Cattle Hill Wind Farm is located on the eastern shore of Lake Echo, on the southern side of the Central
Plateau of Tasmania. Approvals have been received from Council, State and Commonwealth Regulators for
the construction and operation of wind turbine generators and associated infrastructure. The project will
consist of 48 Goldwind turbines, producing up to 150MW of clean renewable electricity. The wind farm will be
one of the largest in Tasmania once completed in late 2019.

The wind park will be connected to the power grid through TasNetworks Waddamana substation. The energy
will be purchased by state government-owned electricity retailer Aurora Energy under a long-term contract.

Initial development of the project, including detailed site analysis, concept design, onsite wind monitoring, and
submission of the Development Application and related Environmental Management Plan was undertaken by
NP Power Pty Ltd. Goldwind acquired the project in September 2017.

Goldwind Australia is a wholly owned subsidiary of Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology, a leading
vertically integrated global wind power company.

Document ASHAL00020180418ee4i000b8

Page1of1©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.