New Lithium Technology Promises 30% to 50% Longer Battery Life
USA News Group; PR Newswire
1,864 words
18 April 2018
23:00
PR Newswire Europe
TWOTEN
English
Copyright © 2018 PR Newswire Europe Limited. All Rights Reserved.
LOS ANGELES, April 18, 2018 /PRNewswire/ --

FN Media Group Presents USA News Group News Commentary 

In a boon for lithium power, researchers have built a prototype lithium ion battery that could last 30 to 50
percent longer than any battery on the market. The news comes at a time when demand for lithium supplies
are now forecasting a shortfall as early as the end of 2018.

Lithium companies are benefiting from the push for global competition including NRG Metals Inc. (TSX: NGZ)
(OTC: NRGMF), Pilbara Minerals Ltd (OTC: PILBF), Neo Lithium Corporation (TSX: NLC) (OTC: NTTHF),
and Galaxy Resources (OTC: GALXF).

The limitations in capacity and longevity have held back electric vehicle adoption for many years and only
significant progress in addressing these issues has finally brought about the current breakthroughs. Apple
have been subject to public embarrassment following revelations that they intentionally slowed down old
phones in order to make them keep up with degrading batteries. Upcoming research developments could
help to overcome these problems once and for all and lead to even faster proliferation of lithium batteries.

One new source for lithium may be NRG Metals Inc. (TSX: NGZ) (OTCMKTS: NRGMF). That junior miner is
developing potentially huge lithium brine project in South America's well known lithium triangle. The lithium
trend also has other major lithium miners working full speed in order to bring on greater supplies of the
valuable metal including Pilbara Minerals Ltd (OTC: PILBF), Neo Lithium Corporation (TSX: NLC) (OTCQX:
NTTHF), and Galaxy Resources (OTC: GALXF).

Virtually all lithium-focused producers are seeing heightened activity and price rises at this point.

LONGER LIFE LITHIUM WOULD BE A HELP 

The obvious downside to the new lithium driven energy boom is battery life. But new advancements to
prolong li-ion battery life are really changing the landscape. One of the notable developments is at the
University of Akron, where researchers have built a prototype for a lithium ion battery that could last 30 to 50
percent longer than any battery on the market.

The lead researcher on the project Dr. Yu Zhu explains that the improvements come from the materials that
bind the electrodes together. In conventional batteries where polymer binding material is used, the cells only
last for 10 to 20 cycles. With the new prototype, the battery can cycle for thousands of cycles without
depleting in capacity. The technology used in Zhu's project is a groundbreaking development given that little
has changed in li-ion technology for the past three decades.

The developers hope to scale up their prototype, which at the moment is the size of a coin, so that it can be
used in smartphones and other bigger applications. The Akron battery could hit the market in as little as two
years, but the market will not be short of competitors.

Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research are working on a li-ion battery that
could double current storage capacity and lower the weight of the battery. At the Northwestern University, in
collaboration with Argonne National Labs, researchers are hoping for a breakthrough on a rechargeable
battery, which may be capable of extending cellphone battery life by a factor of eight. The efficiency

Page1of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.improvements in battery technologies will also see a proliferation of large scale storage facilities such as the
ones Tesla has unveiled in Australia and Puerto Rico.

MOVING TO MEET DEMAND: JUNIORS CATCH THE WAVE 

This unique climate has created a significant opportunity for all lithium companies. A likely scenario that will
become increasingly popular over the next few years is direct investment into junior lithium exploration
companies. One of the early movers in that category is NRG Metals - A Canadian company committed to
creating lithium resources.

NRG Metals, a start-up focused on the development of lithium brine assets in Argentina, has recently
attracted a Chinese battery material producer through closing on a $1.4 million private placement to fund
ongoing exploration activities in Argentina and the potential, as an Off-Take producer, for future lithium
products extracted. The company has two projects, with the most significant project being the "Hombre
Muerto North Project" or HMNP. HMNP is located in the Salta and Catamarca provinces and comprises a
total property package of over 3,000 hectares encompassing six concessions.

The company has reported good surface sample collections, magnesium to lithium ratios, and is located
across from Galaxy Resources' Sal de Vida lithium development project. Most importantly, the project is
within 20km of FMC Corporation's well established Fenix lithium brine project. With an offtake agreement of
this kind, it's possible that NRG Metals will sell lithium before it's even mined or at least provide a great asset
value to the company.

LONGER LIFE LITHIUM NOT ENOUGH TO STEM THE TIDE 

While the new battery innovations by the Akron Researchers and others are making huge strides in the
quality and longevity of lithium battery technology, they are not near enough to offset the future need for
lithium that is driving development. All these innovations, if they make it to market, are likely to lead to even
higher acceptance rates of li-ion batteries.

And with lithium supplies already tight, the expected increase in demand will need massive infrastructure
investment from mining concerns and juniors to bring more supply online. Increases in the price of lithium
should continue to make such investments economically viable. In the process, investors in lithium mining
activities stand to reap the gains, with lithium expected by some leading analysts to be bigger than copper by
2030.

POTENTIAL COMPARABLES 

Pilbara Minerals Ltd (OTC: PILBF)

Pilbara Minerals is an emerging lithium and tantalum producer focused on the development of its world-class
100% owned Pilgangoora Lithium-Tantalum Project, located approximately 120kms from Port Hedland in the
Pilbara region of Western Australia. Pilgangoora has been confirmed as one of the largest spodumene
(lithium pyroxene) and tantalite projects in the world and is set to be developed into one of the world's largest
lithium mines, also producing tantalite as a valuable by-product.

Neo Lithium Corporation (TSX: NLC) (OTCQX: NTTHF)

Neo Lithium Corp. engages in the exploration and development of resource properties. The company
explores for lithium deposits. It holds interests in the 3Q Project comprising 10 mining claims covering
approximately 35,000 hectares located in Tinogasta area, Catamarca province, Argentina. The company has
filed a Technical Report with Positive PEA Results on its 3Q Project Showing a Capital Cost reduction of
US$98.5M. The company was incorporated in 2016 and is based in Toronto, Canada.

Galaxy Resources (OTC: GALXF)

Galaxy Resources Limited is a lithium-focused resources company, with assets spanning Australia, Canada
and Argentina. Galaxy is currently advancing plans to develop the Sal de Vida Lithium and Potash Brine
Project ("Sal de Vida") in Argentina, which is situated in the Lithium Triangle, a region where Chile, Argentina
and Bolivia meet. Sal de Vida is a proven high quality resource has excellent promise as a future low cost
production facility. Galaxy also owns the Mt Cattlin Spodumene Mine near Ravensthorpe in Western Australia
and the James Bay Lithium Pegmatite Project in Quebec, Canada.

For a more in-depth look into NGZ you can view the in-depth report at USA News Group:
http://usanewsgroup.com/2018/03/12/analysts-predict-lithium-sector-is-growing-faster-than-any-other-sector-
in-the-past-decade/

http://usanewsgroup.com 

Page2of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.info@usanewsgroup.com

Legal Disclaimer/Disclosure: This piece is an advertorial and has been paid for. This document is not and
should not be construed as an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to purchase or subscribe for any
investment. No information in this Report should be construed as individualized investment advice. A licensed
financial advisor should be consulted prior to making any investment decision. We make no guarantee,
representation or warranty and accept no responsibility or liability as to its accuracy or completeness.
Expressions of opinion are those of USA News Group only and are subject to change without
notice. USA News Group assumes no warranty, liability or guarantee for the current relevance, correctness or
completeness of any information provided within this Report and will not be held liable for the consequence of
reliance upon any opinion or statement contained herein or any omission. Furthermore, we assume no
liability for any direct or indirect loss or damage or, in particular, for lost profit, which you may incur as a result
of the use and existence of the information, provided within this Report.

DISCLAIMER: USA News Group is Source of all content listed above. FN Media Group, LLC (FNM), is a third
party publisher and news dissemination service provider, which disseminates electronic information through
multiple online media channels. FNM is NOT affiliated in any manner with USA News Group or any company
mentioned herein. The commentary, views and opinions expressed in this release by USA News Group are
solely those of USA News Group and are not shared by and do not reflect in any manner the views or
opinions of FNM. FNM is not liable for any investment decisions by its readers or subscribers. FNM and its
affiliated companies are a news dissemination and financial marketing solutions provider and are NOT a
registered broker/dealer/analyst/adviser, holds no investment licenses and may NOT sell, offer to sell or offer
to buy any security. FNM was not compensated by any public company mentioned herein to disseminate this
press release.

FNM HOLDS NO SHARES OF ANY COMPANY NAMED IN THIS RELEASE.

This release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, and Section 21E the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and such
forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. "Forward-looking statements" describe future expectations, plans, results, or
strategies and are generally preceded by words such as "may", "future", "plan" or "planned", "will" or "should",
"expected," "anticipates", "draft", "eventually" or "projected". You are cautioned that such statements are
subject to a multitude of risks and uncertainties that could cause future circumstances, events, or results to
differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, including the risks that actual results
may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, and
other risks identified in a company's annual report on Form 10-K or 10-KSB and other filings made by such
company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You should consider these factors in evaluating the
forward-looking statements included herein, and not place undue reliance on such statements. The
forward-looking statements in this release are made as of the date hereof and FNM undertakes no obligation
to update such statements.

Media Contact Information:

FN Media Group, LLC

Media Contact

e-mail:  editor@financialnewsmedia.com  

U.S. Phone: +1(954)345-0611

https://rt.prnewswire.com/rt.gif?NewsItemId=enUK201804187692_Public&Transmission_Id=201804180900P
R_NEWS_EURO_ND__enUK201804187692_Public&DateId=20180418

Document TWOTEN0020180418ee4i003e9

Page3of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.