Budget
Buoyant prices help boost corporate tax take
Geoff Winestock
428 words
9 May 2018
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
8
English
Copyright 2018. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
Commodities

Stronger than expected coal and oil prices will help boost the corporate tax take by $5.2 billion over the next
four years.

Company tax receipts are expected to rise 22.1 per cent this year and another 6.7 per cent next year and
Treasury says higher commodity prices are the key reason.

Iron ore, Australia's biggest export, remained strong at $US67 a tonne in the March quarter and after a recent
fall is expected to stay at its current level of about $55 a tonne for the next four years. That is roughly what
Treasury expected six months ago in the mid-year economic and fiscal outlook.

The surprise good news is in coal, with metallurgical coal expected to remain strong for longer. It had been
expected to be down to $120 a tonne by now but Treasury says it won't fall that low until the end of the year.
Similarly, thermal coal has done better than expected and will remain at $93 a tonne over the next four years,
based on its recent average and the expected Japanese fiscal year contract price. With gas export prices
linked to oil, the recent high Australian dollar price of crude is also expected to boost taxes from LNG exports
by $1 billion over the next four years.

Australia produces some of the highest grade and lowest impurity iron ore. This allows for more efficient
production, reducing emissions and requiring less energy. This is now crucial because
"government-mandated measures to combat pollution have incentivised energy conservation".

Steel margins in China are high at present, which allows for the purchase of pricey Australian iron ore. This
situation might change but China's emphasis on environmental factors is likely to be a long-term structural
change in Australia's favour.

"Australia's exposure to low-grade production is being buffered by its higher quality output. Lower impurities
in much of Australia's iron ore are providing a comparative advantage over other key global iron ore
producers."

Treasury stresses that commodity prices are volatile. For instance, if metallurgical coal prices fall to $120 a
tonne next month, rather than at the end of the year, it will cost the budget $800 million.

Mining investment continues to fall. After peaking in 2012 at the height of the mining boom it is down 65 per
cent. It is expected to decline 7 per cent in 2019 after diving 11 per cent last year. No upturn is expected until
2019-20.

Document AFNR000020180508ee590000o

Page1of1©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.