Exclusive
Coronado Coal planning over A$1B IPO in 2018
Fawad Mir
2,034 words
30 April 2018
SNL Financial Extra
SNLFE
English
Copyright 2018. SNL Financial LC
TOP NEWS

Coronado Coal planning A$1B IPO in 2018

Coronado Coal, which recently purchased the Curragh coal mine in Queensland, Australia, from Wesfarmers
Ltd., is looking to go public this year with an IPO of over A$1 billion, The Australian reported. Coronado also
owns three metallurgical coal mines in the U.S. Goldman Sachs and UBS are said to be working on the
offering, and the company's market cap is expected to amount to at least A$2 billion.

Freezing orders seeking US$2.98B filed in DRC against Glencore subsidiaries

Glencore PLC subsidiaries Mutanda Mining SARL and Kamoto Copper Co. SARL were served with freezing
orders in the Democratic Republic of the Congo from Ventora Development Sasu, a company affiliated with
Israeli billionaire Dan Gertler. Ventora accused the companies of failing to make required royalty payments.
The Glencore subsidiaries contend they do not have to pay Ventora the royalties due to Gertler being
classified as a specially designated national by the U.S. government in late 2017. Ventora believes that it is
entitled to about US$695 million of damages related to Mutanda and US$2.28 billion related to Kamoto, a
total of US$2.98 billion, for the value of future royalties.

Northern Star narrows 2018 gold production guidance

Northern Star Resources Ltd. trimmed its fiscal 2018 guidance to between 540,000 and 560,000 ounces,
compared to the previous range of 525,000 to 575,000 ounces. The company produced 123,913 ounces in
the March quarter, compared to 128,836 ounces in the December 2017 quarter. Output in the June quarter is
estimated to exceed 150,000 ounces.

DIVERSIFIED

* A motion for Rio Tinto to review its membership in certain lobby groups, including the Minerals Council of
Australia, is projected to fall short, The Australian Financial Review reported.

* China Molybdenum Co. Ltd. reported a 159.54% year-over-year surge in first-quarter net profit to 1.55 billion
Chinese yuan. Operating income rose 28.53% to 7.43 billion yuan with net cash flow from operations jumping
80.19% to 2.57 billion yuan, both on an annual basis.

BASE METALS

* Ecuador Mining Minister Rebeca Illescas said the country's officials have been in talks with Japanese and
Chinese companies and Glencore on building a copper refinery in the country, Bloomberg News reported. A
contract is expected to be signed by the end of the year, and the refinery may start production in the next five
to 10 years.

* A 2018 global copper substitution survey conducted by specialist consultancy MetalsPlus estimated net
substitution of copper in 2017 fell to 225,000 tonnes, a decline of 20,000 tonnes compared to 2016, marking a
sixth consecutive annual decline, the International Copper Association reported. The level of substitution now
stands at just 0.8% of the total market, compared to 2.0% in 2007.

Page1of4©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Jiangxi Copper Co. Ltd. booked a net profit attributable to shareholders of almost 766 million Chinese yuan
in the first quarter, increasing 41.52% year over year.

* Marindi Metals Ltd. resumed sole control of the Yalco zinc exploration project in Australia's Northern
Territory after Teck Resources Ltd. unit Teck Australia Pty. Ltd. decided to withdraw from the joint venture.

PRECIOUS METALS

* Highland Gold Mining Ltd.'s gold production in the first quarter declined 9% year over year to 59,311 gold
and gold equivalent ounces from its Mnogovershinnoye, Novoshirokinskoye and Belaya Gora gold mines in
Russia. It attributed the decline to technical issues that weighed on processing plant capacity at
Mnogovershinnoye and Belaya Gora.

* Hummingbird Resources PLC is targeting production of 105,000 to 115,000 ounces of gold in 2018. The
company declared commercial production at its Yanfolila gold mine in Mali on April 1.

* China Nonferrous Gold Ltd. restarted production at its Pakrut gold mine in Tajikistan, following operational
issues caused by avalanches and landslides in early 2017. The processing plant completed its equipment
overhaul and workshop maintenance, and the smelting plant is expected to be back to normal production by
May.

* Operations at Pan American Silver Corp.'s Huaron silver mine in Peru were suspended after members of
the nearby Huayllay community erected road blockades. The activities at the site were halted April 24.

* PJSC Polyus is recommending a dividend of 147.12 Russian rubles per share for the second half of 2017,
subject to shareholder approval. The total recommended dividend payout for the half will amount to about
19.47 billion rubles, or about US$311 million.

* Randgold Resources Ltd. intends to recover most of the lost output at its Tongon gold mine in Cote D'Ivoire
as operations were impacted by a series of work stoppages in the first quarter. Tongon, which has a
production guidance of 290,000 ounces this year, is now back to full capacity.

BULK COMMODITIES

* Potash Ridge Corp. signed a memorandum of understanding to supply 50,000 tonnes per annum of sulfate
of potash from its Blawn Mountain project in Utah to India-based GSFC Agrotech Ltd.

* Guinea's government plans to award a mining contract to a Dutch company for a US$1.4 billion bauxite
mine and aluminum refinery, Reuters wrote. Metalcorp Group BV unit Societe des Bauxites de Guinee plans
to develop a new concession in the northeastern part of the country that it believes has proven reserves of
more than 300 million tonnes in bauxite reserves. The government approved drafting a contract that would
allow the company to start production by the end of 2022.

* ThyssenKrupp AG shareholders are demanding changes to the company's structure and are calling on
management to look at options for selling its materials trading division, Reuters reported. In addition to the
company's potential listing of its European joint venture with Tata Steel Ltd., which may lead to synergies of
€400 million to €600 million, some shareholders are asking the company to list its elevator technology
division.

* In response to Goldilocks Investment Co. Ltd.'s recent legal action against Noble Group Ltd., the Singapore
High Court blocked the commodities trader from holding its annual general meeting April 30, Reuters
reported. Goldilocks, which is Noble's third-largest shareholder, sought to stop Noble from holding any
meetings or moving ahead with its restructuring. It also said in its application that Noble was not recognizing
Goldilocks' "legitimate legal rights" as a shareholder.

* Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska agreed in principle to reduce his stake in En+ Group PLC to below 50%
from 53.85% after a series of talks with company Chairman Gregory Barker. Deripaska, who resigned as
president of En+ Group in February, also agreed to step down from the board and consented to the
appointment of new directors so most of the company's board will comprise new independent directors. The
move is in line with the company's formal request for the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets
Control to extend its General License No. 13 to Oct. 31 from May 7.

* A U.S. Treasury spokesperson said the ownership changes in United Co. Rusal PLC do not guarantee the
removal of sanctions against the company, Reuters reported. "A reduction in the percentage of ownership by
a sanctioned individual is not necessarily in and of itself a basis for de-listing," the spokesperson said.

Page2of4©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Russia is exploring various options to help aluminum producer Rusal, but nationalization is not one of them,
Reuters reported, citing Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov. No decisions have been made so far, added
Peskov.

* The U.S. is likely to extend some countries' temporary exemptions from tariffs on steel and aluminum
imports, CNBC News reported, citing sources that are in talks with the Trump administration. The report said
the extensions may vary in duration for each country, based on progress made in trade negotiations.
President Donald Trump is expected to make the final decision.

* Kobe Steel Ltd. said it mostly halted trade with Rusal following the recent U.S. sanctions on the Russian
aluminum producer and is seeking alternative sources for refined metal, Reuters reported. "We have no
intention to actively trade with any companies on the U.S. sanctions list," Managing Executive Officer Kazuaki
Kawahara said.

* German Chancellor Angela Merkel was unable to secure a public commitment from U.S. President Donald
Trump for exemption from tariffs on the imports of steel and aluminum from Europe, The Australian Financial
Review reported. The EU's temporary exemption from the tariffs is set to end May 1. Meanwhile, Germany,
France and the U.K. agreed that the EU should defend its interests if the U.S. government decides to impose
unilateral trade measures against its 28 member states, Reuters wrote.

* A regional environmental court in Chile ruled that Minera Andes Iron's Dominga iron ore project should be
reviewed for a second time, negating the previous assessments conducted by Chilean environmental
authorities and the country's highest administrative authority, the Committee of Ministers, that revoked the
project. The court said the previous rejections were conducted in an improper manner. Nongovernmental
organization Oceana announced it will appeal the court decision before the Supreme Court, daily Pulso
reported.

* Aluminium Bahrain BSC increased its net income in the first quarter by 32% year over year to US$90
million, with sales up 16% to US$588 million.

* Metinvest BV reported a 12% year over year decline in its crude steel output, which totaled about 1.83
million tonnes in the first quarter.

* PJSC Novolipetsk Steel recommended that shareholders approve a first-quarter dividend of 5.73 Russian
rubles per share. The dividend amount is equivalent to 100% of the group's free cash flow in the first quarter,
which increased threefold to US$599 million.

* PJSC Acron's commercial output of mineral fertilizers rose 4.5% year over year to 1.58 million tonnes in the
first quarter. The group's ammonia production increased 2.8% to 667,000 tonnes as output at the new
Ammonia-4 unit rose 5% year over year to about 208,000 tonnes.

* Inner Mongolia Yitai Coal Co. Ltd.'s first-quarter coal output declined 10.09% year over year to about 8.31
million tonnes. Coal sales in the period grew 7.50% to 16.97 million tonnes, and sales revenue increased
15.96% to 7.59 billion Chinese yuan.

SPECIALTY

* Kimberley Diamonds Ltd.'s Lerala diamond mine in Botswana, which closed operations in June 2017, will be
auctioned online as the liquidators could not attract reasonable offers, Bloomberg News reported. The mine
stopped operations after failing to secure a funding deal with a Chinese financier.

* Galaxy Resources Ltd. tapped JPMorgan for the sale of the company's Sal de Vida lithium project in
Argentina, The Australian reported. Chinese companies and Korea's POSCO are reportedly interested in the
asset.

* China cut its 2018 production quota for rare earth minerals to about 70% of 2017 levels, which could
potentially benefit the Australian mines that produce 15% of global output, The Australian Financial Review
reported. China, which produces about 80% of the world's 17 different types of rare earth elements,
announces production quotas for rare earth ores twice a year.

* PJSC Alrosa expects to begin construction at the Mir mine by early 2020, Vedomosti reported, citing chief
engineer Andrei Cherepnov.

* Nemaska Lithium Inc. entered into an in-principle agreement to supply Northvolt AB with between 3,500 and
5,000 tonnes per annum of battery-grade lithium hydroxide from the Shawinigan commercial plant in Quebec.

INDUSTRY NEWS

Page3of4©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Peru is projecting that mining investment could reach US$15 billion over the next three years, news agency
Andina reported, citing Economy and Finance Minister David Tuesta.

The Daily Dose is updated as of 7 a.m. ET and scans news sources published in Chinese, English,
Indonesian, Malay, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Thai and Ukrainian. Some external links may require a
subscription.

S&P Global Market Intelligence provides links to external sites where these offer further, relevant information
to our readers. While we ensure that such links are functional at the time of publication, we are not
responsible in instances where those links are unavailable later.

Document SNLFE00020180501ee4u000p4

Page4of4©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.