BusinessJournal
Juicier slice of China’s fruit market awaits
BELINDA WILLIS
482 words
1 May 2018
The Advertiser
ADVTSR
Advertiser
26
English
© 2018 News Limited. All rights reserved.
AUSTRALIAN fruit is finding firm markets in China, with even more potential emerging in the country’s
rapidly-growing e-commerce channels directly selling online to customers, according to latest findings from
agribusiness experts.

South Australian fresh produce supplier Frank Bueti backed the findings, saying during a recent trip to China
with 15 producers, he saw online sales looming as a game-changer for fruit and vegetable dealers.

The group visited some of the growing number of Alibaba supermarkets, where customers visited stores to
simply scan products they wanted to buy via phones, then left to lodge orders.

“The order will then be delivered to your house at the time you request and charged to your credit card to the
online platform, it’s all shopping that you order on your phone,” Mr Bueti said.

Mr Bueti, director of Independent Produce Suppliers in Pooraka, said current relationships with Chinese
buyers and more complicated supply chains were being challenged by online concepts and changing rules for
particular export products.

He saw avocados as the most likely new powerhouse product for export, with rules for their entry likely to
soften soon, while increasing numbers of avocadoes being grown domestically meant growers needed fresh
markets. “There’s hundreds of millions of dollars going into huge avocado farms, we’re going to have that
many in Australia,” said Mr Bueti, who also co-established FAB Export and has been exporting wine and
fresh food to Asia for the past six years.

ANZ Australia head of agribusiness Mark Bennett, who led the delegation to China, said the country’s food
and beverage market was rapidly growing.

He said there was particularly strong investment in Australian fruit after technical market access was granted
for almonds, citrus, table grapes, cherries and Tasmanian apples.

“With improved technology and data there’s more food visible and available, there’s rising wealth and fruit is
seen as a luxury snack food in China – high-income earners are attracted to things like celery and table
grapes, avocados and almonds,” Mr Bennett said.

“Selling produce is dominated by the supermarket space but there’s new competitive price tension coming
into the market with online food retailing through Alibaba and JD.com.” Alibaba and JD.com are two of
China’s biggest e-commerce players and have more recently been investing heavily in new physical assets,
trending away from the traditional large supermarket model and opening smaller stores across China.

Mr Bennett said the key for Australian producers was to recognise China wasn’t a quick entry market, it was
more about “forming relationships, taking your time, developing an understanding about the culture, and this
takes patience”.He also said it was currently a tougher road for vegetable producers than those in the fruit
industry, but there was still potential with extensive market research.

Document ADVTSR0020180430ee5100017

Page1of1©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.