Menu

Read	the	Paper

Subscribe

Search

BUSINESS

	

BREAKING	NEWS

	

CITY	BEAT

	

QLD	BUSINESS	MONTHLY

	

PRIME	SITE MONEYSAVER	HQ

	

McDonalds	Big	Mac	VS	Burger	King	Whopper	|	$50	Food	Challenge!
RETAIL

McDonald’s	global	profits	rise	due
to	premium	burgers	and	value
menu

Benedict	Brook,	news.com.au
May	2,	2018	7:21am

THE	registers	are	ringing	at	McDonald’s	following	the	introduction	of	a
value-for	money	menu	that	is	actually	seeing	people	spend	more.

The	ploy	is	paying	dividends	with	global	profits	at	the	burger	giant	jumping	13	per
cent	to	almost	$2	billion.
Macca’s	is	also	making	a	motza	from	a	fast	food	innovation	—	premium	burgers	—
pioneered	in	Australia.
McDonald’s	president	and	chief	executive	officer	Steve	Easterbrook	said	on
Monday	that	revenue	was	up	5.5	per	cent	to	$US5.1	billion	($A6.8	billion)	in	the
first	quarter	of	2018	with	profits	increasing	13	per	cent	to	$US1.4	billion	($A1.9
billion).

Macca’s	profits	are	up	13	per	cent	worldwide.	Picture:	AFP/Karen	Bleier

POSH	PATTIES	
“We	are	satisfying	the	rising	expectations	customers	have	for	the	taste	and	quality
of	our	food	and	greater	convenience	as	they	visit	our	restaurants	or	enjoy	meals
delivered	to	their	homes	and	offices,”	he	said.
Mr	Easterbrook	said	more	premium	burger	offerings	were	part	of	the	reason
behind	the	rise	in	profits	as	customers	swapped	the	standard	Filet-o-Fish	for
fancier	fare.
The	firm	has	historically	used	Australia	as	a	test	bed	for	new	products	and	posh
burgers	are	no	exception.	The	Create	Your	Taste	range,	which	saw	individualised
burgers	served	on	wooden	boards,	was	rolled	out	here	before	many	countries.
Australia	was	also	the	first	place	in	the	world	to	see	Wagyu	beef	burgers	beneath
the	golden	arches.

McDonald’s	Australian	loaded	fries	will	feature	on	the	menu	of	its	flagship	US	restaurant.	Picture:

Toby	Zerna

The	“world	first	limited	edition	burger”	contains	“100	per	cent	Australian-bred
Wagyu	beef	patty	in	between	a	gourmet	bun	(made	to	a	new	recipe),	with	a

specially	created	sauce,	crispy	bacon	strips,	caramelised	onion,	tomato,	lettuce	and
a	slice	of	Coon	cheese”.
Posh	it	may	be,	but	some	have	wondered	how	palatable	it	really	is.
Posting	to	Facebook	group	Fatties	Burger	Appreciation	Society,	which	has	almost
90,000	members,	poster	David	Winch	said	he	was	unimpressed.
“Patty	cooked	to	death	sometime	last	week	and	presented	with	unmelted	cheese,
tomato,	bacon,	a	crapton	of	wilted	lettuce	and	a	smear	of	nondescript	sauce	on	a
dry,	oversized	bun,”	he	wrote.
The	burger	has	also	come	under	fire	for	not	containing	100	per	cent	Wagyu	beef.
But	the	semantics	over	whether	Macca’s	premium	burgers	were	really	premium
hasn’t	stopped	people	trying	them.

McDonald’s	US	dollar	value	menu	that	has	been	credited	with	boosting	profits.

VALUE	MENU	ENCOURAGES	US	TO	SPEND	MORE	
Mr	Easterbrook	said	a	new	US	menu	with	lower-priced	items	was	paying	dividends.
Products	like	soft	drinks,	sausage	wraps	and	triple	cheeseburgers	are	available	at
$1,	$2	or	$3	price	points.
But	far	from	saving	customers	money,	the	lower	priced	items	were	having	the
opposite	effect.
The	McDonald’s	boss	said	people	who	use	the	$1	$2	$3	menu	tended	to	purchase
more	items	than	people	who	do	not	order	from	it,	reported	NBC.
Once	people	were	in	the	store,	some	were	also	upgrading	to	pricier	patties.
The	popularity	of	premium	burgers	and	its	dollar	value	menu	offset	a	decline	in	its
breakfast	menu.	Fewer	people	were	gobbling	up	egg	McMuffins	worldwide	because
competitors,	such	as	Burger	King	and	Dunkin	Donuts,	had	stepped	up	their
breakfast	game.
Australia’s	success	in	predicting	tastebuds	worldwide	has	now	seen	the	country
rewarded.
A	Macca’s	Australian	oddity	will	be	offered	at	a	one-off	restaurants	at	the
company’s	Chicago	headquarters	showcasing	global	variations	of	its	famous	menu.
The	restaurant	will	feature	Australia’s	cheese	and	bacon	loaded	fries,	that’s	chips
smothered	in	hot	goo.
Alongside	the	claggy	chips	will	be	the	McSpicy	Chicken	Sandwich	from	Hong	Kong,

the	strawberry	and	chocolate	covered	coconut	McFlurry	Prestígio	from	Brazil	and
the	kale,	tomato,	cranberry	and	chicken	Manhattan	salad	from,	not	the	US,	but
France.
Originally	published	as	Macca’s	ploy	makes	us	buy	more	burgers

COMMENTS

Post	Comment

