MIL-OSI Energy: IEEFA Report: Proposed Godda Power Project just another financially unviable prop
for Adani
913 words
9 April 2018
ForeignAffairs.co.nz
PARALL
English
Copyright 2018. Multimedia Investments Ltd. All rights reserved.
Source: Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis

Adani’s plan to provide electricity to Bangladesh using Carmichael coal can only entrench energy poverty

April 10, 2018 (IEEFA.org): Adani’s Godda Power proposal is an attempt by Adani to prop up its struggling
Carmichael coal project in Australia, and will lock Bangladesh into an expensive, long-term, and
emissions-intensive source of electricity for decades to come, concludes a reportpublished today by the
Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA).

"With Adani Power’s Mundra import coal-fired power plant financially unviable, Adani sees the Godda project
as a way to provide an alternative destination for coal from the proposed Carmichael mine which has so far
failed to secure any funding," states the report.

Adani Australia chief executive Jeyakumar Janakaraj recently stated that the supply of coal from its
Carmichael coal mine project to the Godda power plant will help bring millions of Bangladeshis out of
poverty.[1]Yet the power purchase agreement struck with India’s poorer neighbour is heavily geared to
primarily assist Adani companies while simultaneously locking Bangladesh into an expensive, long-term and
emissions-intensive source of electricity for decades to come.

Bangladesh is a member of the ‘Vulnerable Twenty Group’ - a forum of nations most vulnerable to climate
change.

Tim Buckley, co-author of the report, said that the proposal to import coal from Australia and then rail it
700km into the state with the largest coal reserves in India simply makes any potential electricity being
produced too expensive for Bangladeshi consumers.

"The logistics of the proposal can only work because the power purchase agreement allows Adani Power to
pass the full cost of importing the coal onto Bangladesh" Buckley said. "The estimated Godda tariff of
Rs6.65/kWh (A$0.13/kWh) is far higher than Indian state-owned utility NTPC’s thermal power tariff of
Rs3.21/kWh (A$0.06/kWh)."

In February 2018 NTPC won a fuel-agnostic competitive tender to export power to Bangladesh - power that
will be far cheaper than that from Adani’s Godda proposal and which makes much more sense for
Bangladesh.

IEEFA’s report also highlights the dire financial state of Godda proponent Adani Power. "Adani Power is in
clear financial distress with net debt of over US$7 billion and its share price has fallen almost 80% to a near
10-year low - the company has given no indication of how they will secure funding for this proposal" Buckley
said. "Adani Power is not in any financial position to undertake a major new US$2.1bn greenfield project; the
most likely outcome is that this power plant will never get off the ground."

Adani Power has so far failed to make the full cash deposit required to secure land acquisition for the project
whilst the company’s loss-making 4.6 GW Mundra power plant, originally earmarked as the major destination
for Carmichael coal, has recently ceased supply of electricity to the state of Gujarat, in breach of its
contracted power purchase agreement.

Now that the dire financial status of the Mundra coal-fired power plant has unraveled Adani’s "pit-to-plug"
strategy, Adani is obviously keen to try and convince potential Carmichael investors that there are alternative

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.destinations for Carmichael’s coal. IEEFA notes that the Indian Association of Power Producers has stated
that, at prices above US$70/t, imported coal is unviable in India. The current cost is US$90 to US$100/t.

IEEFA’s report concludes that both India and Bangladesh would be better off if Bangladesh imported power
on a technology-agnostic basis from existing Indian power plants procured by competitive tenders. Given that
renewable energy in India is now cheaper than power from existing coal-fired power plants, such imports
would be increasingly from renewable sources going forward.

Full report here: http://ieefa.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/04/Adani-Godda-Power-Project-April_2018.pdf

Media Contacts:

Andrew Bradley, andrew@holdfast.global+61 403 777 137

Tim Buckley, Australia tbuckley@ieefa.org+61 40 810 2127

Simon Nicholas, Australia snicholaas@ieefa.org+61 405 831 614

Media U.S. — Karl Cates, kcates@ieefa.org, +1 917 439 8225

About IEEFA: The Cleveland-based Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) conducts
research and analyses on financial and economic issues related to energy and the environment. The
Institute’s mission is to accelerate the transition to a diverse, sustainable and profitable energy economy.

Tim Buckley, Director of Energy Finance Studies at IEEFA, based in Sydney, Australia, he has 30 years of
financial markets experience, including 17 years with Citigroup culminating in his role as Managing Director,
Head of Australasian Equity Research. Tim has written broadly on the China and India’s energy
transformation and the resulting stranded asset risks for thermal coal exposed projects.

Simon Nicholas, an energy research analyst with IEEFA in Sydney, Australia. Simon holds an honours
degree from Imperial College, London and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England
and Wales and has 16 years’ experience working within the finance sector in both London and Sydney at
ABN Amro, Macquarie Bank and Co

[1]https://www.themorningbulletin.com.au/news/adani-wants-cqs-coal-to-lift-millions-out-of-pover/3371530/

MIL OSI Oil Gas Energy -

Document PARALL0020180411ee4900061

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.