Broo abandons Delacombe bar but looks to expand BWEZ presence
Brendan Wrigley
392 words
10 April 2018
Ballarat Courier
FBALAC
0
English
Copyright 2018 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. . Not available for re-distribution.
Environmentally friendly brewing company Broo has abandoned plans to open a bar at the Delacombe Town
Centre in favour of expanding their presence within the Ballarat West Employment Zone.

Broo had intended to unveil a beer and burger bar at Ballarat's newest shopping centre by November 2017 in
addition to developing a $100 million brewing facility in the city's premier industrial estate.

Leedwell Property real estate agent Nick Segran confirmed the 330-square-metre standalone premises was
back on the market for lease.

READ MORE: Brewer to move into Delacombe Town Centre

In a statement a company spokesperson said "Broo concluded recently that its operations focusing in the
Ballarat precinct are better served by expansion of the proposed development at BWEZ".

The brewer was among the first companies announced as a presence within BWEZ when it unveiled its plans
for a 15-hectare site in February 2017.

On top of developing ":the world's greenest brewery", the company also outlined plans to create a
10,000-capacity events space, a beer museum, an energy education centre, a restaurant and bars.

The architectural designs also showed a 45-metre viewing platform equipped with a zipline back down to
ground. The company has predicted the facility would generate about 100 ongoing jobs.

READ MORE: Broo proposes to build 10,000-capacity live music venue in Ballarat West

"An additional parcel of land adjacent to the Broo site within BWEZ is currently being discussed with the State
Government to accommodate the extra facets of the project as part of this staged development project," the
statement read.

The expansion discussions come just months after the company landed a giant $120 million beer distribution
deal in China which will see 1.5 billion litres of lager purchased over seven years.

The company, which has its headquarters based in Sorrento, paid about $2.16 million for the 15-hectare
block.

The brewer initially intended to begin works at BWEZ by February 2018, with construction expected to take
two years. All up the facility is expected to be able to produce 480 million bottles of beer a year.

READ MORE: Future BWEZ brewer lands huge distribution deal in China

A spokesperson for Ballarat City Council confirmed no planning applications had yet been lodged by Broo.

Document FBALAC0020180409ee4a00001

Page1of1©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.