SRG - Strategic Acquisition and Underwritten Capital Raising
1,446 words
10 April 2018
ENP Newswire
ENPNEW
English
(c) 2018, Electronic News Publishing. All Rights Reserved.
Release date - 09042018

Australian complex services company SRG Limited ('SRG') today announces a strategic push into the New
Zealand market with the A$32.9 million acquisition of TBS Group, a specialist industrial contractor in asset
and infrastructure maintenance services.

A binding Share Purchase Agreement has been executed under which SRG will acquire 100% of the shares
in TBS Group Pty Ltd ('TBS Group') for NZ$35.0m (A$32.9m)1. TBS is a non-core asset held by ASX-listed
automotive company Bapcor Limited ('Bapcor') ('Acquisition').

The acquisition will deliver SRG significant revenue and earnings and be highly EPS accretive to
shareholders of approximately 30%2.

Key Transaction Highlights

Funded by A$24m capital raising (A$20m placement and A$4m SPP) and balance from existing cash / NAB
debt facilities

FY18F revenue of A$70m, EBITDA range of A$7.5m - A$7.9m and EBIT range of A$6.0m - A$6.4m

FY19F EBITDA range of A$8.0m - A$9.0m

4.2x FY18F EV/EBITDA multiple and 3.8x FY19F EV/EBITDA multiple

David Macgeorge, Managing Director of SRG, described TBS Group as a highly attractive acquisition that is
aligned with SRG's strategic plan to pursue selective growth in complementary markets and services.

'TBS provides us with further international geographic expansion and a platform for future growth in New
Zealand. We have significantly enhanced our exposure to asset maintenance services and believe there are
significant opportunities to be unlocked including various cross-sell opportunities across both Australia and
New Zealand. TBS is an excellent cultural fit with a highly experienced management team and the acquisition
provides new and exciting opportunities for both SRG and TBS employees.'

Purchase Price based on a cash free and debt free basis and subject to working capital adjustments. NZD
converted to AUD at 0.94. Includes NZ$2.5m purchase price deferred until September 2018 subject to certain
conditions.

Based on FY18 broker consensus for SRG and midpoint of TBS FY19F

Background on TBS Group

TBS Group is a leading New Zealand based specialist industrial contractor providing asset and infrastructure
maintenance services. Range of specialist services provided include infrastructure maintenance services,
building maintenance services, remedial services, protective coatings, industrial access solutions (scaffold
and rope) and refractory services. Key sectors include oil and gas, transport infrastructure, energy,
renewables, steel and dairy.

TBS Group was originally established in 1948 in Auckland as the Farnsworth Group. Today, TBS Group
employs 450 people and is headquartered in Auckland with operations and 9 branches throughout New
Zealand.

Page1of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Primarily operates via four specialist companies including: TBS Farnsworth (including Total Bridge Services
JV): Diverse asset maintenance and construction services provider and maintains some of New Zealand's
largest infrastructure assets. Is a party to the Total Bridge Services JV with Fulton Hogan and WSP Opus NZ
that provides maintenance activities on the Auckland Harbour Bridge

TBS Remcon: Established in 2013 to offer construction solutions to remediate leaky, seismically challenged
end of life buildings and structures. Services include concrete and structural remediation, interior
refurbishment, facade building deconstruction and reconstruction, structural strengthening and toxic waste
removal

TBS Coatings: Provides access solutions, abrasive blasting and protective coating services

Crow Refractory: Leading provider of refractory services including the design, supply, construction,
installation and maintenance of refractory lining

TBS Group is a non-core asset held for sale by Bapcor Limited (an ASX listed company whose main focus is
on providing automotive aftermarket parts and accessories). TBS Group was previously acquired by an
investment holding company, Hellaby Holdings Limited ('Hellaby'). Bapcor acquired TBS Group in February
2017 via its acquisition of Hellaby. As an automotive parts distributor, Bapcor has divested various non-core
assets, with TBS Group the last remaining non-core asset held for sale.

Strategic Rationale

The acquisition of TBS Group represents a major expansion of SRG's presence in the New Zealand market
and is consistent with SRG's strategy to grow into adjacent and complementary sectors whilst preserving its
identity as a specialist and complex services provider.

Acquisition of TBS Group is a strategically attractive acquisition

Significantly enhances SRG's exposure in specialised services and maintenance

Strategically aligned specialist services offering

Enhances SRG's sector and customer diversity

International geographic expansion and platform for future growth in New Zealand

Synergies and cross-selling opportunities (accelerated SRG growth opportunities in New Zealand and TBS
Group opportunities in Australia)

Non-core asset acquired with significant untapped opportunities

Highly experienced management team and an excellent cultural fit 4. Transaction Summary

SRG has entered into a binding Share Purchase Agreement to acquire 100% of the shares of TBS Group Pty
Ltd for NZ$35.0m3 (A$32.9m), on a cash free and debt free basis. The purchase price is subject to a post
completion adjustment following the final determination of working capital. The purchase price includes a
deferred component of NZ$2.5m until September 2018 subject to certain conditions being met.

Bapcor Limited owns 100% of the shares in TBS Group Pty Ltd, which operates the business of TBS Group.

Completion of the transaction is scheduled to occur on 11 April 2018, subject to the receipt of subscriptions
by SRG under the institutional placement. The economic effective date for the Acquisition is 1 April 2018.

Financial Impact

TBS Group is expected to achieve FY18F revenue of A$70m, EBITDA range of A$7.5m - A$7.9m and EBIT
of A$6.0m - A$6.4m with FY19F EBITDA of A$8.0m - A$9.0m4.

The Acquisition is expected to have the following effect on SRG on a pro forma basis: EPS accretion of
approximately 30% on a full year pro forma adjusted basis (based on FY18 broker consensus for SRG and
midpoint of TBS FY19F)5

Significant increase in revenue and higher EBITDA margins

Strong balance sheet position post acquisition with an expected pro-forma Dec-17 net debt position of
A$5.9m following the acquisition funding (described below) and completion of the Acquisition

Following the Acquisition, SRG will retain a strong balance sheet with additional head room under its existing
debt facilities.

Page2of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Includes NZ$2.5m purchase price deferred until September 2018 subject to certain conditions.

On a full year basis and excludes potential synergies, transaction costs and integration costs.

Before synergies, transaction costs, integration costs and amortisation of customer related intangibles.

Transaction Funding

The acquisition will be funded by a combination of:

Drawing down existing NAB debt facilities

Proceeds from an underwritten equity placement, and

Proceeds from a share purchase plan ('SPP').

The debt component of the transaction will be funded through SRG's existing debt facility from National
Australia Bank Limited.

SRG has today launched a fully underwritten institutional placement to raise A$20.0 million to partly fund the
acquisition ('Placement'). The Placement will be undertaken by way of a fixed price offering at $1.60 per
share, representing a 5.3% discount to the 5 day VWAP and a 4.7% discount to last close, and will result in a
maximum issue of approximately 12.5 million new ordinary shares. The Placement is fully underwritten by
Euroz Securities Limited and Hartleys Limited.

In addition, SRG will offer an SPP at the same price as the Placement to raise a maximum of A$4.0 million.
SRG will offer eligible shareholders with registered addresses in Australia or New Zealand as at 4.00pm
Perth time on 4 April 2018 (the Record Date) an opportunity to participate in the SPP allowing them to acquire
up to A$15,000 in new SRG shares. The SPP will be subject to a scale back if oversubscriptions are
received. Details of the SPP will be sent to shareholders during the week commencing 9 April 2018.

Media Contact:

Michael Weir Tel: (08) 6160 4900

SRG Limited are an Australian complex services company. Our vision is to make the complex simple for our
customers and our mission is to be a leading provider of complex services to the construction and mining
industry worldwide. Founded in Victoria in 1961, the Company commenced trading as BBR Australia Pty Ltd
with the first project undertaken to supply and install rock anchors for the Snowy Mountains scheme. Listed in
1987 on the ASX as Structural Systems Limited, the organisation has grown from a small privately owned
specialist post-tensioning company to a diverse international contractor in building, civil, mining, products and
services. SRG has offices throughout Australia as well as in the Middle East and Hong Kong. In November
2014, Structural Systems Limited became SRG Limited.

[Editorial queries for this story should be sent to newswire@enpublishing.co.uk]

Document ENPNEW0020180410ee4a00035

Page3of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.