Features - Rear Window
Rear Window
Joe Aston
1,054 words
11 April 2018
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
40
English
Copyright 2018. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
Star placement Cantonese for dead loss

In honour of Morgans private client adviser James Chandler, who can, in moments of weakness, be awfully
protective of his Brisbane Inc mates at Blue Sky Alternative Investments, here goes:

Jimmy C accused us (a fair way closer to midnight than midday) on Thursday of "[reading] a short research
thesis last week" from which we "learned what the company does for the first time".

Perhaps uncharitably, we felt compelled to direct the pride of Churchie's Old Boys' Association to our
pre-Christmas prediction that Blue Sky was headed for an unhappy (calendar) 2018.

While we're stuck in gloating mode (not the most painful gear to be stuck in for a megalomaniac), forgive us
for exhuming another prophecy made in that same sentence of December 21: that we'd be "keeping a gimlet
eye on Star Entertainment (a recent convert to aggressive accounting)." For context, Star only met its FY17
guidance by booking $12.8 million to the underutilisation of its private jet fleet and by capitalising an additional
$17.5 million of IT expenses. Without those two "extraordinary items", it missed forecast NPAT by 11 per
cent.

This year so far, Star is down 14.3 per cent while the ASX200 is down 3.4 per cent and its nearest peer
Crown Resorts (itself hardly shooting the lights out) is down 2.45 per cent (all excluding dividends). Though
remember, we've got nearly eight months to be proven monstrously wrong.

Don't get us wrong now: Star was never a business in any kind of existential trouble; it was a solid business
(despite a taut balance sheet loaded with debt and capex and a stubbornly low win rate) whose tapering
growth prospects jarred with management's strenuous rhetoric.

A fortnight back, Star issued 91.65 million new shares to its two largest (Hong Kong-based) shareholders,
Chow Tai Fook and Far East Consortium at $5.35 per share (the analysts' average target price - whatever
their opinions are worth these days - is $5.98), raising $490 million and thus nearly halving net debt (net of
transaction costs) to $553 million (or back to just south of 1x EBITDA).

Whether Star could ever have traded itself into better fiscal shape is now irrelevant. Two Chinese investors
now hold a blocking stake for which they paid almost no premium. Both will have to send a shedload of their
countrymen to Sydney, Brisbane and Surfers before those properties' facelifts will ever stack up, even though
they were already incentivised to do so by their joint ventures on Queen's Wharf and the Gold Coast.

But to us, the maddening bit is the terms chairman John O'Neill and his board have afforded their Asian
confederates - whose grins, even two weeks later, must still be Cheshire-like. Page 19 of the Subscription
Agreement between the three parties holds Star, should it wish to raise further capital at a later date, to offer
both Chow Tai Fook and Far East "Top-Up Right", or "an opportunity to participate" guaranteeing either can
"maintain its shareholding percentage".

The double standard here is truly staggering: two investors contractually ring-fenced from dilution in the very
transaction that dilutes the rest of their fellow shareholders (who must all wish such rights were so compliantly
afforded them). This of course requires a waiver from the ASX of its listing rule 6.18 (that "an option must not

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.be exercisable over a percentage of the entity's capital"), though show me a company that paid its listing fees
on time but didn't get a waiver from the bourse's compliance chief Kevin Lewis, in his absolute discretion, and
we'll have you all over for dinner with Elvis and a Tasmanian Tiger.

This solvency play is no Halley's Comet - this side of Christmas, Lewis has already nodded through
anti-dilution rights for Eastern Goldfields, Genesis and Orocobre. And that's only to February 28 (while
requiring its platform lemmings to live in real time, the ASX operates a carrier pigeon network on a six-week
lag). But it is contrary to the spirit of property rights unchallenged since Hobbes and Locke. Hey it's late, so
forgive the hyperbole.

Thomson, Penn join cricket tussle?

Well this cricket rights commotion really is getting to the pointy end now!

In Sydney on Monday meeting with Ten Network chief Paul Anderson was Cricket Australia chief executive
James Sutherland and his sidekick Ben Amarfio (AKA Johnny Rivers - we sure hope he had himself a hot
breakfast on the Qantas flight from Melbourne).

News Corp's global co-chairman Lachlan Murdoch arrived in Sydney on Tuesday.

But also visiting the Emerald City is News Corp's New York-based, Melbourne-raised (and
Essendon-barracking) chief executive Robert Thomson. Two executive chairmen and a chief executive - and
that's before you count local management. Hey, we warned you they were top heavy. On Monday evening,
he joined Telstra chief executive Andy Penn for dinner at John Fink's Otto Ristorante on the Woolloomooloo
Finger Wharf (try the barramundi fillets; no really). News, of course, speaks for 65 per cent of the
newly-merged Foxtel-Fox Sports, which is loosely in the IPO pipeline, while Telstra is down to 35 per cent
(while still holding the streaming rights to AFL and NRL).

On Friday last week, Foxtel's chiefs, all 20 of them, noisily walked away from negotiations with Cricket
Australia while remaining in discussions with Cricket Australia. Que? There really is no one like them. After
all, this is the mob that blew its brains out paying $2.5 billion for (2017-2022) AFL rights to spite the Rugby
League Commission (which had just spurned Fox Sports for a deal with Nine), only to turn around and buy
NRL matches back from Nine anyway. Forget winning the lottery - you'd do better selling the Murdochs your
house!

While News has explicit management rights over Foxtel, it's safe to assume Thomson would give Penn the
courtesy of an advance peek at an $850 million splurge (still a fluid figure, and co-funded by Kerry Stokes'
Seven) on five or six years of the nation's summer sport. Which might be precisely what just happened.

Document AFNR000020180410ee4b0000v

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.