Exclusive
Glencore to declare force majeure on some aluminum amid US sanctions
Sarah Mughal
1,710 words
11 April 2018
SNL Financial Extra
SNLFE
English
Copyright 2018. SNL Financial LC
TOP NEWS

Glencore to declare force majeure on some aluminum amid US sanctions

Glencore PLC will declare force majeure on some aluminum supply in the wake of U.S. sanctions on Russian
entities, including United Co. Rusal PLC, Reuters reported, citing a source familiar with the matter. The move
covers more than 50,000 tonnes of Russian metal destined for one of Glencore's customers, according to the
Financial Times.

Mongolia arrests 2 former prime ministers amid Oyu Tolgoi probe

Mongolia's Independent Authority Against Corruption detained two former prime ministers amid an
investigation of government officials suspected of misusing their mandates during two rounds of talks over the
development of the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold mine, Reuters reported. The agency arrested Bayar Sanj, who
served as prime minister when the original 2009 investment deal was signed with Ivanhoe Mines and Rio
Tinto, and Chimed Saikhanbileg, prime minister when an expansion agreement for Oyu Tolgoi was signed in
2015.

Japanese researchers map major rare earth elements deposit

Researchers in Japan mapped vast reserves of rare earth elements in deep-sea mud, which are enough to
cater to global demand on a "semi-infinite basis," Agence France-Presse reported. According to the study,
the deposit, found within Japan's exclusive economic waters, hosted over 16 million tons of the rare earth
elements.

DIVERSIFIED

* Rio Tinto defended its executive payout policy after proxy adviser Glass Lewis urged shareholders to vote
against it and lashed out at the company for giving out bonuses in 2017, a year when two workers died,
Reuters reported. Rio Tinto did cut the payout component of its 2017 executive bonus relating to safety and
proposed a new measured from 2018 onward that would prioritize on rewarding zero fatalities.

*Vedanta Resources Plc Chairman Anil Agarwal offered to help Anglo American PLC, in which he owns a
21% stake, to expand into India, Bloomberg News reported. The executive, however, was not explicit about
whether he wanted to assist Anglo with increasing sales to the country or to start operating mines there.

BASE METALS

* Vedanta Resources said expansion plans for the Thootukudi copper smelting plant in India's Tamil Nadu
state, operated through its Vedanta Ltd. unit, remain on track even though the state pollution regulator
recently rejected the application for the plant to resume operations, Reuters reported.

* Vedanta booked highest-ever silver and lead production in the fourth quarter of its fiscal 2018 at its Zinc
India operations. Zinc India recorded a 22% jump in silver output to 5.5 million ounces and refined lead
production rose 11% to 50,000 tonnes on a yearly basis for the quarter ended March 31.

Page1of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.* Atalaya Mining plc's copper production from Proyecto Riotinto in the first quarter increased to 9,441 tonnes,
compared to 8,805 tonnes in the year-ago quarter. The increase was mainly attributable to a record average
recovery of 88.47%.

* Indonesian tin miner PT Timah Tbk. signed a shareholder agreement worth US$26 million with Topwide
Venture Ltd. to set up a joint venture company in Nigeria, Bisnis Indonesia reported, citing Timah CEO Riza
Pahlevi Tabrani.

* A high court in Botswana took the Tati nickel mine, a subsidiary of the liquidated BCL mine group, out of
provisional liquidation, while dismissing a request for more time to negotiate with potential buyers, Reuters
reported. The asset has been under provisional liquidation since October 2016, which was twice extended
after the liquidator sought more time to secure a deal with potential investors.

PRECIOUS METALS

* As B2Gold Corp. production surged in the first quarter, company President and CEO Clive Johnson told
S&P Global Market Intelligence that B2Gold will focus on cash flow, debt payback and exploration rather than
mergers and acquisitions. In the first quarter, B2Gold's gold production jumped 81% year over year to
239,684 ounces on the back of output from the Fekola mine in Mali, which achieved commercial production in
late November 2017.

* Barrick Gold Corp. produced 1.0 million ounces of gold and 85 million pounds of copper in the first quarter,
according to preliminary figures. Gold and copper sales, meanwhile, came in at 1.1 million ounces and 85
million pounds, respectively.

* Cia. de Minas Buenaventura SAA produced 232,579 ounces of gold and 6.83 million ounces of silver in the
first quarter.

* SSR Mining Inc. produced 42,960 ounces of gold at its Marigold mine in Nevada, reflecting an 18.6%
decline over the fourth quarter of 2017, while gold output at its Seabee operation in Saskatchewan also
slipped 2.1% on a quarterly basis to 23,717 ounces.

* Pretium Resources Inc. produced 75,689 ounces of gold from its Brucejack mine in British Columbia in the
first quarter, with an average gold grade of 9.1 g/t and a 96.8% recovery rate. The company is targeting to
produce 150,000 to 200,000 ounces of gold, with all-in sustaining costs of US$700/oz to US$900/oz sold,
during the half.

* Harmony Gold Mining Co. Ltd. lost 12 kilograms of gold, or about 386 ounces, from its Kalgold operations in
South Africa after thieves broke into the mine's guarded storage facilities the morning of April 10, Bloomberg
News reported.

* Kin Mining NL will curb construction works on the Leonora gold project in Western Australia pending a full
review of the capital cost and schedule for completion. The company's shares were down over 40% at market
close on April 11.

* Torex Gold Resources Inc. was notified of the Los Mineros union withdrawing a challenge to be the legally
constituted union at the company's El Limon-Guajes gold operations in Mexico. The move will result in the
termination of the government-sanctioned union selection process.

* Hecla Mining Co.'s silver production in the first quarter slipped to 2.5 million ounces from 3.4 million ounces
produced a year ago, while gold output increased to 57,808 ounces from 56,113 ounces in the first quarter of
2017.

BULK COMMODITIES

* Russia is ready to provide Rusal temporary liquidity as the company warned of credit defaults and told its
customers to stop paying due to the U.S. sanctions, which barred it from conducting any trades in US dollars
or doing business with US citizens, the Financial Times reported. "Companies that have been subject to
sanctions, we will certainly support them, be it short-term liquidity, be it other support measures that are
currently being worked on," Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said.

* Nonexecutive directors Maksim Goldman and Daniel Lesin Wolfe resigned from Rusal's board after the
Russian company was named on a U.S. sanctions list along with En+ Group PLC. Meanwhile, Moody's and
Fitch Ratings both withdrew their ratings for Rusal.

* According to Bloomberg News, aluminum prices are rising to the highest levels seen since 1988 after the
U.S. government imposed sanctions on Rusal, causing top exchanges to stop accepting metal from the

Page2of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Russian company. Apart from the London Metal Exchange, CME Group Inc.'s Comex said it will not allow
new deliveries of metal from Rusal.

* Brazilian antitrust regulator overturned an earlier approval of Vale SA's sale of the Fertilizantes complex in
the country to Norway's Yara International ASA for about US$255 million, as it decided to reassess the
transaction, Reuters reported.

* Aperam SA agreed to acquire VDM Metals for €438 million in a move to expand into high-end alloys,
Reuters reported. The transaction will unlock about €20 million euros of synergies by 2020, and boost EPS
and free cash flow from the first year.

* Aurubis AG is in talks with miners South America, the U.S. and Australia, to explore potential smelting
partnerships, as it pushes ahead with ambitious growth plans, Reuters reported. The company has about
€1.2 billion for potential acquisitions, CEO Juergen Schachler said.

* Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. said its Chichester Hub project in Western Australia will be the world's first iron
ore operation to have a fully autonomous fleet after converting about 100 haul trucks.

* Maxtech Ventures Inc. entered into a joint venture agreement with Fabio Cardoso Carneiro and Daniel
Geyerhahn of Goldmen Resources Brazil for the exploration, evaluation and potential acquisition of
manganese mineral deposits in Goiás, Brazil.

SPECIALTY

* Mineral Resources Ltd. expects a 10% cut in its previous lithium export guidance of 4.5 million tonnes in
2018 from its Wodgina project in Western Australia. The company said that adverse weather events, some
mechanical failures and port congestion during the first quarter will affect exports at Wodgina.

* Kenmare Resources Plc's heavy mineral concentrate production in the first quarter decreased 12% year
over year to 311,000 tonnes. Total shipments of finished products were up 4% to 267,200 tonnes.

* MRG Metals Ltd. signed a binding heads of agreement to acquire Sofala Resources Pty. Ltd. and
Trophosys Pty. Ltd., which own the Corridor, Linhuane and Marao/Marruca mineral sands projects in
Mozambique.

INDUSTRY NEWS

* Of the largest 25 mining companies in the world, 19 saw a decrease in valuation in March, leading to an
aggregated market capitalization of US$776 billion. Despite an overall decline of the 25 largest companies
from the previous month, these companies were worth more than the top 25 companies on the same date a
year ago, when their combined worth was US$666 billion.

* Ecuador may remove a windfall tax on the mining sector this year as the country seeks to attract investment
and diversify away from oil, Reuters reported, citing Mining Minister Rebeca Illescas.

* Indonesian Energy Minister Ignasius Jonan said the department is trying to simplify the process of securing
export recommendations for coal and minerals, Bisnis Indonesia wrote.

The Daily Dose is updated as of 7 a.m. Hong Kong time, and scans news sources published in Chinese,
English, Indonesian, Malay, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Thai and Ukrainian. Some external links may
require a subscription.

S&P Global Market Intelligence provides links to external sites where these offer further, relevant information
to our readers. While we ensure that such links are functional at the time of publication, we are not
responsible in instances where those links are unavailable later.

Document SNLFE00020180413ee4b0002t

Page3of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.