Situs RERC and Urban Property Australia Announce the Release of Australian Real Estate Trends -
Holding Firm in Asia Pacific
601 words
12 April 2018
22:30
PR Newswire
PRN
English
Copyright © 2018 PR Newswire Association LLC. All Rights Reserved.
NEW YORK and MELBOURNE, Australia, April 12, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- US-based, SEC-registered
investment advisor Situs RERC and Melbourne-based advisory firm Urban Property Australia (UPA) present
the April 2018 edition of Australian Real Estate Trends -- Holding Firm in Asia Pacific. The report explores
Australian economic and real estate market trends within a global context.

For the third straight year, Australia is the third highest ranked country for commercial real estate investment
in Asia Pacific, and the seventh ranked globally.

Australia joins the US, UK and Germany as the only countries with multiple cities in the top 25 for global
capital cross-border flow in 2017, and total commercial real estate investment into Australia surpasses many
global economies, including Hong Kong, Singapore, Canada, Spain and the Netherlands.

Ken Riggs, President of Situs RERC, says, "Cross-border and total transaction volumes did decline
year-over-year, however; the fall in investment volume probably more reflects the capital constraints from
China rather than diminishing appetite."

Sam Tamblyn, Urban Property Australia Managing Director, added, "Commercial real estate investment
reached an all-time high in the Asia Pacific in 2017 with growth led by activity in Singapore and Hong Kong.
Expanding e-commerce and the urbanisation of Asian cities have captured investors' attention in 2017 with
industrial property investment growing by 20% over the year."

For further information, please contact:

Ken Riggs, President, Situs RERC

319-483-7176

193266@email4pr.com

Sam Tamblyn, Managing Director, Urban Property Australia

193266@email4pr.com

About Situs and Situs RERC

Situs RERC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Situs, is one of the longest-serving and most well-recognized
national firms devoted to valuation management and fiduciary services, appraisal and litigation services, and
research, risk analysis and publications. Situs has been the premier global provider of strategic business
solutions for the finance and commercial real estate industries for over 30 years. A rated servicer with
Moody's, Fitch and Morningstar, Situs has more than US$165 billion of assets under management and is
ranked a top 20 servicer in multiple categories by the Mortgage Bankers Association. In 2016, Situs received
a second consecutive "Advisor of the Year" award by Real Estate Finance & Investment magazine and the
"Capital Advisor Firm of the Year" award by Property Investor Europe. In 2017, the firm won the "Industry
Contributor of the Year" award from Real Estate Finance & Investment magazine. Situs recently acquired The
Collingwood Group and MountainView Financial Services to bolster the firm's suite of residential services.

About UPA

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Urban Property Australia (UPA) was founded in 2009. Clients include many of Australia's leading corporates,
financial institutions and investors who appreciate UPA's commitment to providing superior quality advisory
services. Drawing on its in-depth market knowledge, UPA advises on property strategy and facilitates
outcomes that align with its clients' business objectives. UPA's advisory and transaction management
assignments are Australia-wide and have a proven track record for commercial property valuations in the
Melbourne metropolitan area and key Victorian regional centres. Since inception, UPA has advised on more
than AU$27 billion in real estate transactions. In 2018, UPA won the "Best Full-Service Property Valuation &
Advisory Firm" award from APAC Insider magazine. For more information, please see
www.upaustralia.com.au.

View original content with
multimedia:
http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/situs-rerc-and-urban-property-australia-announce-the-release-of-
australian-real-estate-trends--holding-firm-in-asia-pacific-300628410.html

SOURCE Situs RERC; Urban Property Australia

(END)

Document PRN0000020180412ee4c00088

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.