Our	network

MENU

Log	In

-

NATIONAL ACT CANBERRA

Canberra	Casino	given	one	month	to	finalise	pokies-
fuelled	expansion

By	Katie	Burgess
13	April	2018	—	8:37am

The	company	behind	a	multimillion	dollar	bid	to	expand
Canberra	Casino	in	exchange	for	being	allowed	to	operate
poker	machines	has	been	given	one	month	to	finalise	its
proposal.

A A
A

The	ACT	government	has	written	to	Aquis	Entertainment	giving	the	company	until	May	14	to
progress	the	unsolicited	bid	it	brought	forward	in	2015	for	a	$330	million	rebuild	of	the	ageing
casino.

But	Gaming	Minister	Gordon	Ramsay	revealed	the	company	had	gone	cold,	after	the
government	changed	the	ACT's	gambling	laws	to	allow	the	casino	to	have	poker	machines,	but
with	strict	conditions.

Things	may	be	changing	at	Canberra	Casino.

Things	may	be	changing	at	Canberra	Casino.

Hong	Kong-based	Aquis	wanted	permission	to	operate	500	poker	machines	in	exchange	for
building	two	luxury	hotels	on	the	site	near	Glebe	Park,	as	well	as	new	bars,	cafes	and
promenade-style	shopping	featuring	brands	like	Chanel,	Gucci	and	Louis	Vuitton.

However	the	laws	the	ACT	Legislative	Assembly	passed	last	year	would	only	allow	the	casino	to
operate	200	poker	machines,	as	well	as	60	fully-automated	table	games,	limited	punters	to	$2
spins	and	forced	them	to	nominate	how	much	they	are	prepared	to	lose	in	advance.

Mr	Ramsay	said	the	government's	support	for	Aquis	operating	poker	machines	hinged	on	its
redevelopment	of	the	casino	precinct,	however	he	had	not	received	"critical	information
required	for	the	process	to	move	forward".

A	spokesman	for	Aquis	said	the	company	was	still	interested	in	pursuing	the	redevelopment.

However	the	casino	reported	a	loss	of	$13.8	million	in	February,	its	second	in	a	row.

"Given	the	size	of	the	proposed	investment,	the	government	must	be	realistic	in	its
expectations	in	relation	to	the	detail	and	speed	at	which	information	can	be	provided	in	the
face	of	significant	commercial	uncertainty,"	he	said.

"The	legislative	changes,	passed	in	late	2017,	require	a	thorough	process	to	be	undertaken	to
determine	the	impact	of	such	significant	regulatory	and	land	use	restrictions	as	those	imposed.
We	have	advised	the	government	that	this	process	is	ongoing,	and	as	part	of	that	their	input	will
be	required	to	clarify	a	number	of	outstanding	issues."

ACT	Opposition	gaming	spokesman	Mark	Parton	said	the	conditions	had	made	the
redevelopment	unviable.

"From	the	day	the	casino	amendment	bill	was	tabled	we’ve	been	saying	there	would	not	be	an
Aquis	casino	redevelopment	because	the	conditions	that	have	been	set	up	by	this	government
for	poker	machines	at	the	casino	were	never	going	to	fit	the	business	model	Aquis	had	originally
proposed,"	Mr	Parton	said.

"There	was	never	going	to	be	enough	money	in	it	for	them	and	there	was	going	to	have	to	be
too	much	outlay."

However	Mr	Ramsay	said	those	conditions	were	to	protect	the	health	and	wellbeing	of
Canberrans.

"If	there’s	any	expansion	in	gambling	in	any	way	it	needs	to	be	done	in	a	way	that’s	socially
responsible,"	Mr	Ramsay	said.

The	announcement	comes	as	the	government	tries	to	reduce	the	number	of	poker	machine
authorisations	in	Canberra	from	nearly	5000	to	a	max	of	4000,	in	line	with	its	2016	election
promise.

Earlier	this	month,	it	appointed	former	Commonwealth	departmental	secretary	Neville	Stevens
to	review	how	it	could	cut	the	number	of	machines,	and	revealed	it	will	start	forcing	clubs	to
surrender	gaming	machine	licences	from	next	April.

Mr	Ramsay	said	in	order	for	that	work	to	progress,	the	government	needed	to	understand	what

role	the	casino	would	play	in	the	authorisation	trading	scheme,	as	it	could	potentially	account
for	the	removal	of	a	considerable	number	of	machines.

Under	the	new	casino	laws,	the	casino	would	have	to	forfeit	one	in	three	poker	machine	licences
it	bought.

If	it	wanted	to	operate	200	machines,	it	would	have	to	buy	300	licences	and	surrender	130	to
the	government.

"Given	we’re	reducing	the	number	of	authorisations	by	980,	130	[licences]	makes	a	significant
difference,"	Mr	Ramsay	said.

He	denied	the	clubs	sector	had	pressured	the	government	to	act,	saying	the	government	had	set
a	clear	harm	minimisation	all	the	way	through.

However	Mr	Parton	speculated	another	buyer	was	circling	the	casino.

License	this	article

CANBERRA

ACT	GOVERNMENT

Katie	Burgess

Katie	Burgess	is	a	reporter	for	the	Canberra	Times,	covering	ACT	politics.

MORNING	&	AFTERNOON	NEWSLETTER
Delivered	Mon–Fri.

Your	email	address

SIGN	UP

By	signing	up	you	accept	our	privacy	policy	and	conditions	of	use

OUR	SITES

WAtoday
The	Sydney	Morning	Herald
The	Age
Brisbane	Times
The	Canberra	Times
The	Australian	Financial	Review
Domain
Traveller
Good	Food
Executive	Style
The	Store	by	Fairfax
Drive
Adzuna
RSVP
Essential	Baby
Essential	Kids
Weatherzone

CLASSIFIEDS

Commercial	Real	Estate
Oneflare
Nabo

WATODAY

Contact	&	support
Advertise	with	us
Newsletters
Accessibility	guide
Sitemap

FAIRFAX	MEDIA

Photo	sales
Fairfax	syndication
Fairfax	events
Fairfax	careers
Conditions	of	use
Privacy	policy
Press	Council

Copyright	©	2018

