CBRE to ride over sluggish office market
868 words
15 April 2018
Korea Times
KORTIM
English
(c) 2018 Korea Times. All rights reserved.
The office building market on Yeouido, Seoul, has remained stagnant over the past few years amid the rising
number of new office buildings. CBRE Korea, which began managing the 50-story Federation of Korean
Industries (FKI) Tower building in February, faces a daunting task finding tenants as four out of ten offices in
the building are vacant. / Korea Times fileBy Jhoo Dong-chanCBRE Korea, the local unit of the U.S. real
estate consulting and management firm, has vowed to tide over the increasingly sluggish commercial
property market amid the rising number of new office buildings, according to the company CEO.In an
interview with The Korea Times, CBRE Korea Managing Director Darren Krakowiak said the firm will make
money despite increasingly unfavorable market conditions. Founded in 1999, the firm has since engaged in
three different commercial real estate sectors _ office, retail and industrial. “Despite unfavorable market
factors, including the U.S.

interest hike and the Korean government's stance to choke down the country's office building prices, Korea
still promises high returns in real estate compared to government bonds or savings,” he said.The company
came to the center of public attention after it was selected to provide management and leasing services for
the Federation of Korean Industries (FKI) Tower building on Yeouido, Seoul, in February. Despite mounting
concerns about the falling prices of the district's commercial facilities, Krakowiak said the company will
continue its earnings streak with differentiated real estate investments.The FKI Tower has suffered vacancies
since LG CNS moved from the building to the Magok industrial complex, southwestern Seoul, in 2017. A
number of FKI member companies also took off from the building since the lobby group was found to have
had ties with Choi Soon-sil, the disgraced former President Park Geun-hye's confidant.Four out of ten offices
in the building are reportedly vacant, which induces concerns on the FKI tower's profitability, but Krakowiak
said the real estate still promises higher returns compared to other investments.“The return on investment in
real estate has been 3 to 4 percent higher than government bond or savings,” Krakowiak said. He also said
the gentrification of certain areas in Seoul could pressure small business owners there, but it could be
another opportunity. “I believe it is an inevitable phenomenon for small business owners to face soaring rent
price as the area become popular. Once the area becomes popular, capital comes in to invest on the street.
CBRE Korea offers an ideal partnership for such projects to appreciate the value of the area,” the managing
director said.As of 2016, CBRE Korea concluded 29 sales transactions with a total value of 912 billion won
($853 million). The firm leased 362,000 square meters of office, retail, industrial and logistics facilities in that
year. It also completed 53 consulting, valuation and advisory assignments while participated in 52
construction and management projects in 2016. CBRE Korea managed about 3 square kilometers of property
and 353,000 square meters of corporate facilities.One of the company's representative projects was the
Seoullo 7017 project. “We participated in the Seoul Metropolitan Government (SMG)'s Seoullo 7017 project
including providing a detailed merchandise plan, overall layout, shopper flow, targeted revenue and tenant
mix,” Krakowiak said.

CBRE Korea Managing Director Darren Krakowiak speaks during an interview with The Korea Times at the
company's head office in Seoul, Wednesday. / Courtesy of CBRE KoreaThe Seoullo 7017 project was
determined by the SMG based on its evaluation that the elevated highway over the tracks leading into the
Seoul Station was unsafe and needs to be refurbished. City planners decided to turn the one-kilometer-long
overpass into a sky park, similar to New York City's High Line, a desirable destination for residents and
tourists. It decided to link the second floor of the Daewoo Foundation building to the Seoullo 7017, and CBRE
Korea was selected to manage the project and act as the exclusive leasing agent. Working in close
cooperation with the SMG, Daewoo Foundation remodeled the building interior while the city took charge of
the overall design and construction of the connecting passageway.CBRE Korea successfully leased 100
percent of the space on time to a mix of international and local tenants while securing the client a triple-digit
increase in rental income.“CBRE Korea is also interested in cluster-based leasing projects, similar to
WeWork, which operate mainly in downtown Seoul area,” said Krakowiak.“Based on prior consultation with

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.landlords, we offer on-demand custom leasing projects for certain purposes. The service is expected to be
best suited for startups and venture companies.”Headquartered in Los Angeles, CBRE Group is the world's
largest commercial real estate services and investment firm listed as a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company. It
has more than 80 offices in the Asia Pacific region, including in Australia, Cambodia, China, Hong Kong and
Japan. Graduating from Monash University in Australia, Krakowiak started his career in real estate in
Melbourne in 2001. He has since worked in various posts, including JLL Korea director, and joined CBRE
Korea as a managing director in November 2015.

Document KORTIM0020180416ee4f0002i

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.