News
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
912 words
16 April 2018
Hobart Mercury
MRCURY
Hobart
12
English
© 2018 News Limited. All rights reserved
Department bunch of donkeys IT is such a shame that the school farm is going to close so that the Education
Department can build a high school that is not needed. There is a perfectly good high school in Jordan River
Learning Federation in Bridgewater. The school farm is a valuable resource for the local schools and future
children are going to miss out. And why are they building a high school in Brighton, it will be a public school,
so the parents of Brighton will still continue to send their children to private schools instead of the local public
high school. It will just widen the social gap between Bridgewater/Gagebrook and Brighton.

Danny Pross Brighton

TFGA conscience WHETHER the live export of sheep from Tasmania to overseas locations occurs is not
clear to the public, but many thousands (hundreds of thousands?) of Tasmanian sheep are exported across
the notorious Bass Strait by boat every year.

The TFGA spokesman claims that Tasmanian sheep haven’t been sent overseas for “many years” (Mercury,
April 10). This is not to say that international live export of Tasmanian animals doesn’t occur. A quick Google
search finds that Roberts are advertising for Tasmanian Friesian and Angus heifers to send live to China this
month. There is no reason to expect live export conditions are any better for cows than for sheep. So let’s
have the truth TFGA, how many animals from Tasmania are being exported across Bass Strait to join
overseas shipments?

How can farmers constantly turn a blind eye to the horror of live export that has been exposed in the media
again and again over the years? TFGA and members, it is high time your conscience took precedence over
your bank balance.

Karen Bevis Animal Justice Party, Tasmania

Tassie different THE Mount Wellington Cableway Company must have their heads in the clouds to think the
cable car would benefit Tasmanian school kids education. The logic of copying the program from South
Africa’s cable car is supposedly to educate Tasmanian schoolchildren about the alpine environment. This
poorly thought out PR stunt proves MWCC has little knowledge of kunanyi for if they did they would have
discover that according to the Register of National Estate, “there is no other site in Australia with such a steep
altitudinal gradient which encompasses a range of vegetation types”. This is to say that there is no better
place to learn not only about the alpine environment but also subalpine, rainforest, wet sclerophyll, dry
sclerophyll environments. Part of the beauty of driving up the mountain is discovering these environments
change as you climb.

To stick kids on a cable car removes them from learning about the different environments. There appears to
be such a poor understanding of the mountain by the proponent. This is just another reason why just because
something works in one part of the world, it shouldn’t happen in Tasmania. Tasmania is different and different
is what we do best.

Jason Turvey Kingston

Education jewel READER Di Manser (Letters, April 13) is concerned that, with secondary colleges scaled
down, outdoor education may disappear from the curriculum. Colleges have offered students a wide range of
subjects across the curriculum with highly experienced and inspirational teachers concentrated in one

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.institution. However, if the colleges are scaled down, outdoor education will not be the only subject to
disappear. Colleges create an environment that has a concentration of students and teachers in one
institution, creating a dynamic environment. To lose that is to lose the jewel in our state education system.

Elizabeth Osborne North Hobart

Still got the blues I HAVE had second thoughts about my earlier suggestion that the Libs change their colour
to red to support their red — neck policies. Perhaps blue is still relevant seeing that proposals for more
commercial developments in national parks and public land are being pushed. No doubt the cable car,
Frenchmans Cap, fish farms, water etc will stimulate “blues” with conservationists, the forest wars having
seemingly ended. A nice way to distract the punters from real problems like health care, education, traffic
jams and housing.

Rob Hill Howrah

Build houses ONCE upon a time we had a housing department and through that department apprentices
were trained to build affordable housing either for rent or to buy. It is incumbent on any democratic
government to provide affordable housing for people on lower incomes and/or pensions. Many of us grew up
in these homes, which had a generous garden, and were close to schools, shops and services (these are the
houses that are now being sold for over $400,000 and usually picked up by investors not first home buyers).

There are a lot of people who look forward to buying their first home, having a family, and living in the one
place for an extended period of time and these people often don’t have huge salaries and/or a double income
but want the life just as passionately as we all do. It’s a total failure of any government to overlook them.

Just imagine how many trainees jobs would be on offer if this project of building affordable houses was
reinstated — and once the trainee is qualified they go on to be professional builders, bricklayers, etc.

The policy of building homes is long term, not short term, and giving quick cash handouts to landlords will not
solve anything.

Shirley RoundWest Moonah

Document MRCURY0020180415ee4g0000w

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.