EMGS: Announcement of terms of Rights Issue and the Bond Issue
2,080 words
16 April 2018
21:04
Nasdaq / Globenewswire
HUGNEN
English
© 2018, The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, DIRECTLY OR
INDIRECTLY, TO U.S. NEWS WIRE SERVICES, IN OR INTO THE UNITED STATES, AUSTRALIA,
CANADA, JAPAN, HONG KONG, SINGAPORE OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION IN WHICH THE
DISTRIBUTION OR RELEASE WOULD BE UNLAWFUL. FURTHER RESTRICTIONS ARE APPLICABLE.
PLEASE SEE THE IMPORTANT NOTICE AT THE END OF THIS RELEASE.

Reference is made to the press release published by Electromagnetic Geoservices ASA ("EMGS" or the
"Company") dated 2 March 2018 wherein it was announced that the Independent Board proposed the
Comprehensive Refinancing; consisting of the Rights Issue (raising gross proceeds of between USD 10.0
and 12.5 million, whereof USD 10.0 million is underwritten) and the Bond Issue (raising gross proceeds of
USD 32.5 million, fully underwritten).

Reference is further made to the EGM of the Company held on 23 March 2018, wherein the Comprehensive
Refinancing was approved by the Company's shareholders.  

The Independent Board has today approved the final terms of the Rights Issue.

The Rights Issue will comprise an offering of a minimum of 31,632,654 and a maximum of 39,540,816 new
shares, at a subscription price of NOK 2.45, representing a discount to the theoretical ex-rights price (TERP)
of approximately 10 per cent based on the Company's average closing share price of NOK 2.842 for week 15
and the maximum number of new shares to be issued.

The gross proceeds of the Rights Issue will be used for general corporate purposes.   

The Rights Issue and the Bond Issue will be carried out on the basis of a prospectus (the "Prospectus") to be
approved by the Financial Supervisory Authority of Norway. The Prospectus is expected to be published on
or about 20 April 2018. Any subscription for shares in the Rights Issue and / or bonds in the Bond Issue
should only be made on the basis of the Prospectus.

The Rights Issue

The Rights Issue Subscription Rights (as defined below) will be listed and tradable on Oslo Børs under the
ticker "EMGS S" on or about 20 April 2018 at 09:00 CET. Assuming listing takes place on 20 April 2018, the
Subscription Rights will be tradable until 2 May 2018 at 16:30 CET.

The Rights Issue will be directed towards the shareholders of the Company as of 17 April 2018 (the "Inclusive
Date"), as registered in the Norwegian Central Security Depository (VPS) (the "CSD") on 19 April 2018 (the
"Record Date") who are not resident in a jurisdiction where such offering would be unlawful, or for
jurisdictions, other than Norway, that require any filing, registration or similar action (the "Rights Issue Eligible
Shareholders").

Each Rights Issue Eligible Shareholder will be granted 0.43247 subscription rights (the " Rights Issue
Subscription Rights") for every one (1) share in the Company registered as owned in the CSD on the Record
Date. One Rights Issue Subscription Right will, subject to applicable securities law, give the holder the right to
subscribe for and be allocated one new share in the Company in the Rights Issue. Acquired Rights Issue
Subscription Rights will give the same right to subscribe for and be allocated new shares as Rights Issue

Page1of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Subscription Rights held by Eligible Shareholders on the basis of their registered holdings as of the Record
Date. Oversubscription is allowed. Subscription without Rights Issue Subscription Rights is not permitted.

A portion of the Rights Issue equal to a maximum amount equal to the NOK equivalent of USD 10 million is
underwritten by Siem Investments Inc., Perestroika AS, and RWC European Focus Master Inc (each an
"Underwriter" and, together, the "Underwriters"), all major shareholders in the Company.

The underwriting is regulated by underwriting agreements entered into between the Company and the
respective Underwriters on or about 8 March 2018 (the "Underwriting Agreements"). According to the
Underwriting Agreements, each of the Underwriters have, severally, and not jointly, and on a pro rata up to
the maximum amount undertaken by each of them, undertaken to subscribe for the new shares not
subscribed for during the subscription period. The underwriting obligation of each Underwriter does not
include a guarantee for the payment by any subscriber or any other Underwriter of their subscription amount
in the Rights Issue. The Underwriters will receive a guarantee commission of 1.5 per cent of their guaranteed
amount, subject to completion of the Rights Issue or, as the case may be, certain other events. Each
Underwriter's obligation will be reduced on a share for share basis with the number of new shares subscribed
for in the Rights Issue and allocated to it.

The Rights Issue Subscription Rights are expected to have an economical value. Please note that Rights
Issue Subscription Rights that are not used to subscribe for new shares before the end of the Subscription
Period or sold before 16:30 CET on 2 May 2018 will lapse without compensation and consequently be of no
value. Holders of Rights Issue Subscription Rights (whether granted or acquired) should note that
subscriptions for new shares must be made in accordance with the procedures set out in the Prospectus.

The Bond Issue

The Bond Issue is directed towards shareholders in the Company as of the Inclusive Date, as registered in
the CSD on the Record Date) who are not resident in a jurisdiction where such offering would be unlawful, or
for jurisdictions, other than Norway, that require any filing, registration or similar action and (the "Bond Issue
Eligible Shareholders"). This subscription right is non-transferrable and conditional on the Bond Issue Eligible
Shareholder holding a number of shares in the Company which corresponds (pro rata) to a minimum number
of bonds equivalent to a minimum investment (rounded down to the nearest whole number of bonds) of USD
10,000. To be able to meet this minimum investment threshold, shareholders will need to hold a minimum of
28,132 shares in the Company. Shareholders who whish to participate in the Bond Issue and do not currently
meet this threshold will need to buy additional shares in the marketplace at the latest within 17 April 2018.

The conversion price for the convertible bonds to be issued under the Bond Issue is based on the
subscription price in the Rights Issue. With the subscription price determined by the Independent Board, the
conversion price for the convertible bonds will be USD 0.42677 per share (corresponding to NOK 3.30750).

Oversubscription is permitted. Subscription without being a Bond Issue Eligible Shareholder is not permitted.

The Bond Issue is fully underwritten up to the maximum amount of USD 32.5 million by the Underwriters. The
underwriting is regulated by the Underwriting Agreements. According to the Underwriting Agreements, each
of the Underwriters have, severally, and not jointly, and on a pro rata basis and up to the maximum amount
undertaken by each of them, undertaken to subscribe for bonds in the Bond Issue not subscribed for during
the subscription period. The underwriting obligation of each Underwriter does not include a guarantee for the
payment by any subscriber or any other Underwriter of their subscription amount in the Bond Issue. The
Underwriters will receive a guarantee commission of 1.0 per cent of their guaranteed amount, subject to
completion of the Bond Issue or, as the case may be, certain other events. Each Underwriter's obligation will
be reduced on a bond-by-bond basis with the number of bonds subscribed for under the Bond Issue and
allocated to it.

The convertible bonds issued under the Bond Issue will have a subscription price of USD 100 per bond, equal
to the par value of each convertible bond.

The Company's shares will be traded exclusive of the right to receive Rights Issue Subscription Rights and
the right to subscribe for convertible bonds under the Bond Issue on 18 April 2018.

DNB Registrar's Department acts as receiving agent in connection with the Rights Issue and the Bond Issue.
Advokatfirmaet Wiersholm AS acts as legal advisor to the Company.

For further information, please contact:

Hege Veiseth, CFO, +47 99 21 67 43

About EMGS

Page2of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.EMGS, the marine EM market leader, uses its proprietary electromagnetic (EM) technology to support oil and
gas companies in their search for offshore hydrocarbons. EMGS supports each stage in the workflow, from
survey design and data acquisition to processing and interpretation. The Company's services enable the
integration of EM data with seismic and other geophysical and geological information to give explorationists a
clearer and more complete understanding of the subsurface. This improves exploration efficiency and
reduces risks and the finding costs per barrel.

EMGS operates on a worldwide basis with offices in Trondheim, Oslo, Houston, Villahermosa, Rio de Janeiro
and Kuala Lumpur.

For more information, visit www.emgs.com

Important information:

The release is not for publication or distribution, in whole or in part directly or indirectly, in or into Australia,
Canada, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore or the United States (including its territories and possessions, any
state of the United States and the District of Columbia).

This release is an announcement issued pursuant to legal information obligations, and is subject of the
disclosure requirements pursuant to section 5-12 of the Norwegian Securities Trading Act. It is issued for
information purposes only, and does not constitute or form part of any offer or solicitation to purchase or
subscribe for securities, in the United States or in any other jurisdiction. The securities mentioned herein have
not been, and will not be, registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the
"Securities Act"). The securities may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an
exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. The Company does not intend to register
any portion of the offering of the securities in the United States or to conduct a public offering of the securities
in the United States. Copies of this announcement are not being made and may not be distributed or sent into
Australia, Canada, Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore or the United States. The issue, exercise, purchase or sale
of subscription rights and the subscription or purchase of shares in the Company are subject to specific legal
or regulatory restrictions in certain jurisdictions. Neither the Company nor the Receiving Agent assumes any
responsibility in the event there is a violation by any person of such restrictions.

This communication is only being distributed to and is only directed at persons in the United Kingdom that are
(i) investment professionals falling within Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(Financial Promotion) Order 2005, as amended (the "Order") or (ii) high net worth entities, and other persons
to whom this announcement may lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2)(a) to (d) of the Order
(all such persons together being referred to as "relevant persons"). This communication must not be acted on
or relied on by persons who are not relevant persons. Any investment or investment activity to which this
communication relates is available only to relevant persons and will be engaged in only with relevant persons.
Persons distributing this communication must satisfy themselves that it is lawful to do so.

This announcement is an advertisement and does not constitute a prospectus for the purposes of Directive
2003/71/EC (as amended, together with any applicable implementing measures in any Member State, the
"Prospectus Directive").

The distribution of this release may in certain jurisdictions be restricted by law. Persons into whose
possession this release comes should inform themselves about and observe any such restrictions. Any failure
to comply with these restrictions may constitute a violation of the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. The
Receiving Agent is acting for the Company and no one else in connection with the Offering and will not be
responsible to anyone other than the Company for providing the protections afforded to their respective
clients or for providing advice in relation to the Offering and/or any other matter referred to in this release.

This information is subject of the disclosure requirements under section 5-12 of the Norwegian Securities
Trading Act.

This announcement is distributed by Nasdaq Corporate Solutions on behalf of Nasdaq Corporate Solutions
clients.

The issuer of this announcement warrants that they are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and
originality of the information contained therein.

Source: EMGS via Globenewswire

Document HUGNEN0020180416ee4g00209

Page3of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.