Menu

Read	the	Paper

Subscribe

Search

BUSINESS

	

BREAKING	NEWS

	

CITY	BEAT

	

QLD	BUSINESS	MONTHLY

	

PRIME	SITE

5	expert	skincare	secrets
RETAIL

The	Melbourne	mums	behind	the
wildly	successful	The	Base
Collective	skincare	brand

Alexis	Carey,	news.com.au
April	15,	2018	6:51pm

CASSIE	Sanghvi	was	on	maternity	leave	in	2016	when	she	and	her
friend	Carly	Pountney	decided	to	launch	a	business	as	an	“experiment”.

The	Melbourne	mums	both	had	a	passion	for	health	and	wellness,	and	were
growing	increasingly	concerned	by	the	lack	of	organic,	chemical-free	skincare
products	on	the	market.
They	were	both	looking	for	a	new	challenge	and	were	particularly	worried	about
their	kids	using	products	with	potentially	nasty	ingredients	—	and	so	the	idea
behind	The	Base	Collective	was	born.
•	Couple	earns	$18k	‘on	the	side’
•	Shocking	photo	dividing	America
•	The	huge	problem	with	this	job	form
The	brand	launched	just	two	years	ago	in	April	2016,	when	its	Lemon	Hand	Wash
and	Hand	Milk	hit	the	market.
Since	then,	the	duo	has	also	expanded	into	a	magnesium-based	range	of	products,
including	bath	salts,	body	wash	and	body	creams,	which	catapulted	them	onto	an
international	stage.
Today,	The	Base	Collective	is	a	multimillion-dollar	company	and	is	on	track	to	hit	$1
million	in	sales	for	its	best-selling	Magnesium	Oil	alone	this	financial	year.
Products	are	exported	to	China	and	the	US	and	are	sold	through	Anthropologie,
and	a	partnership	with	a	major	Australian	retailer	is	also	in	the	pipeline,	with
several	new	products	in	the	works.

Making	Magnesium	easy.	That’s	what	we’re	about.	#natutalstartshere	#socialunion	(cid:1)
via	@social.union

A	post	shared	by	Magnesium	Skincare	+	Wellness	(@thebasecollective)	on	Apr	12,	2018…

Mrs	Sanghvi,	a	registered	pharmacist,	and	Ms	Pountney,	who	worked	in	banking,
have	also	developed	a	range	of	pet	care	products	and	a	collection	for	babies,	which
features	a	sleep	spray,	a	hair	and	body	wash	and	baby	balm.
But	despite	the	company’s	rapid	expansion,	Mrs	Sanghvi,	a	mum	of	three,	said	it
started	as	a	bit	of	a	gamble.
“I	suppose	it	was	an	experiment	—	it	was	more	of	a	mental	health	project	for	me,”
she	told	news.com.au.
“I’ve	always	been	a	big	thinker,	but	it	is	a	bit	surreal	to	think	about	where	we	are
now.
“It’s	almost	a	‘be	careful	what	you	wish	for’	thing	because	I’m	super	busy	now	—	I
have	a	nanny	for	a	couple	of	days	a	week	and	on	those	days	I	work	on	The	Base
Collective,	getting	up	at	5am	and	working	around	the	kids,	but	it	is	hugely
satisfying.”

Soak	it	in,	or	rub	it	in.	Either	way	the	best	way	to	get	your	Magnesium	is	via	your	skin.
#naturalstartshere	#magnesium

A	post	shared	by	Magnesium	Skincare	+	Wellness	(@thebasecollective)	on	Feb	19,	2018…

She	said	the	company	had	stemmed	from	a	genuine	passion	for	health	—
particularly	the	benefits	of	magnesium,	which	Mrs	Sanghvi	said	could	contribute	to
“increased	energy	production,	better	mood,	and	relief	from	pain,	stress,	muscle
cramps	and	sugar	cravings”.
“With	my	pharmacy	background	I	always	read	the	ingredients	on	labels	…	but
having	children	really	sparked	my	interest	in	natural,	organic	products,”	she	said.
“Your	skin	is	your	biggest	organ,	and	what	you	put	on	it	goes	in,	so	it’s	important	to
make	sure	your	skincare	is	up	to	scratch.”
The	35-year-old	said	the	launch	of	the	brand	was	“fortuitous	timing”	as	it	coincided
with	a	surge	in	interest	in	natural	products	and	health	and	wellbeing	around	the
globe.
“Everyone	is	more	aware	of	the	health	impact	of	food	and	nutrition	now	as	well	as
skincare	so	there	was	an	element	of	timing	there,”	she	said.
“I	am	happy	people	are	finally	taking	notice	and	[the	industry]	is	starting	to	grow
and	I	hope	it	forces	other	brands	to	adopt	similar	principles.”

@sadie_thecavalier	checking	out	her	new	@petwellnessbytbc	goodies!	We	literally	cover
the	whole	family	in	natural	goodness	-	fur	babies	included	(cid:1)☺	(cid:1) 	via	@sadie_thecavalier
#petwellness	#naturalstartshere

A	post	shared	by	Magnesium	Skincare	+	Wellness	(@thebasecollective)	on	Nov	17,	201…

Mrs	Sanghvi	said	her	husband	had	an	entrepreneurial	background	and	had	helped
the	company	develop	—	although	its	rapid	success	had	been	a	“steep	learning
curve”	and	“huge	mistakes”	had	been	made	along	the	way.
But	said	the	company	now	had	a	“seven	figure”	turnover	and	that	while	initially
they	were	producing	around	400	bottles	per	month,	that	had	now	grown	to	“tens	of
thousands”	every	few	weeks.
“The	Base	Collective	has	seen	phenomenal	growth	and	it	is	heartwarming	to	know
it	is	resonating	with	people	and	there	is	demand	for	our	products,”	she	said.
She	said	the	lucrative	partnership	with	Anthropologie	began	after	the	American
clothing,	home	decor	and	beauty	retailer	noticed	The	Base	Collective	on	social
media	and	got	in	touch.
alexis.carey@news.com.au
Originally	published	as	‘Experiment’	leads	to	multimillions

COMMENTS

Post	Comment

