Our	network

MENU

Subscribe

Log	In

SUBSCRIBE
-

ANALYSIS

BUSINESS COMPANIES MEDIA	&	MARKETING

Sol	Trujillo	helped	pull	trigger	on	global	ad	guru
Martin	Sorrell

By	Colin	Kruger
17	April	2018	—	12:05am

The	ramifications	of	Martin	Sorrell’s	forced	departure	from
WPP	could	be	felt	on	our	shores	if	it	leads	to	a	splintering	of
the	global	advertising	and	marketing	giant	he	built	over	more
than	three	decades.

Sol	Trujillo.		Illustration:	John	Shakespeare

A A
A

And	there	are	hints	that	an	Aussie	connection
may	have	played	a	crucial	role	in	triggering
the	investigation	into	allegations	of	financial
impropriety	and	personal	misconduct,	which
triggered	Sorrell's	departure.

"The	allegation	did	not	involve	amounts	that
are	material,"	the	company	has	said,		which
led	many	to	question	what	the	WPP	board
were	thinking	when	they	announced	the	probe.

More	details	may	emerge	this	week	when	the
board	meets	to	discuss	the	future	of	the
business	with	many	UK	analysts	hinting	at	a
break-up	of	the	group.

“The	question	to	[chairman	Chairman
Roberto]	Quarta	is	how	do	we	create
shareholder	value	from	this	position.	I	think
most	analysts	and	investors	when	adding	up
the	sum	of	the	parts	of	WPP	would	answer	that
it	is	to	break	it	up,”	Cenko	Securities	analyst
Alex	DeGroote,	told	The	Guardian.

Sol	Trujillo.	Illustration:	John	Shakespeare

So	what	will	the	future	hold	for	the	ASX-listed	WPP	AUNZ	Ltd	which	was	formed	by	the	merger
of	WPP’s	local	operations	with	John	Singleton’s	old	ad	group	STW	Communications?

WPP	owns	61	per	cent	of	WPP	AUNZ.

"WPP	AUNZ	continues	to	benefit	from	a	very	strong	partnership	with	WPP	plc	and	excellent
relationships	with	a	wide	range	of	WPP	plc	senior	executives	and	representatives	on	WPP
AUNZ's	board,"	the	company	said	in	a	statement	to	the	ASX	on	Monday.

A	report	in	UK	trade	mag,	Campaign,	hinted	that	one	particular	WPP	board	member	set	himself
apart	from	the	herd	with	active	question	of	the	company’s	operations.
“Several	people	who	have	attended	WPP	board	meetings	in	the	past	identified	Sol	Trujillo,	a
former	US	telecoms	boss,	as	a	non-executive	director	who	sometimes	asked	the	most
challenging	questions,”	said	the	report.

That	sounds	like	our	Sol	alright.

Mind	you,	Sol	was	one	of	the	board	members	that	stood	shoulder	to	shoulder	with	Sorrell	when
WPP's	investor	peasants	were	revolting	over	his	£70	million	payout	in	2015.

There	obviously	aren't	any	hard	feelings.	The	board	said	his	departure	will	be	treated	as	a
retirement,	which	means	Sorrell	could	still	earn	another	£20	million	in	payments	over	the	next
five	years.

Financial	freedom
The	Freedom	Food	Group’s	move	into	the	A2	milk	protein	market	has	enthused	its	controlling
shareholders	-	the	billionaire	Perich	family.
A	change	of	director’s	interest	notice	from	Ron	Perich	on	Monday	informed	us	that	Arrovest
Pty	Ltd	-	the	investment	vehicle	he	controls	along	with	his	brothers	Anthony	and	Michael	-
acquired	$6	million	worth	of	shares	last	week	at	$4.80	a	share.

A2	Milk	ads	displayed	on	the	iconic	SOGO	building	in	central	Hong	Kong.

A2	Milk	ads	displayed	on	the	iconic	SOGO	building	in	central	Hong	Kong.
Photo:	Supplied

It	lifts	their	combined	stake	to	more	than	53.7	per	cent	and	comes	just	weeks	after	Freedom
launched	its	own	A2	Milk	range.

It	adds	to	the	competition	for	the	ASX-listed	A2	Milk	Company,	although	Freedom	is	sticking	to
the	ultra	high	temperature	(UHT)	treated	packs	rather	than	fresh	A2	milk	produce.

Ironically	it	was	Freedom	that	paved	the	way	for	A2	Milk’s	success	more	than	a	decade	ago	with
a	partnership	that	almost	led	to	a	takeover	of	the	then	fledgling	A2	milk	producer.

The	Perich	brothers	must	rue	the	day	Freedom	gave	up	its	bid	and	sold	its	17	per	cent	stake	for
no	more	than	85c	a	share.

A2	Milk	shares	topped	$13	last	month,	which	means	Freedom	left	more	than	$1.5	billion	on	the
table.

And	how	has	the	Perich's	investment	in	Freedom	fared	despite	its	spoiled	A2	Milk	Company
bid?

Well,	it	hasn't	been	too	shabby	but	it	is	like	comparing	a	Formula	1	racer	to	CBD's	trusty	Nissan
Pulsar.

Copping	out
It	is	hard	to	describe	just	how	woeful	things	have	been	at	Cudeco,	the	colourful	copper	miner
founded	by	the	even	more	colourful	Wayne	McRae.

CBD	has	lost	count	of	the	number	of	disruptions	at	the	company’s	troublesome	mine	in
Cloncurry,	and	now	it	looks	like	its	bean	counters	are	not	faring	any	better.

The	stock	hasn’t	traded	for	more	than	a	month	and	that	will	not	be	changing	anytime	soon.
The	company	suspended	trading	while	it	fixed	up	its	non-compliance	with	Ore	Reserve	listing
rules.	Before	this	was	fixed,	the	company	fell	behind	with	the	book-keeping	for	its	half	year
results	which	were	delayed	until	Monday	April	16.
On	Monday,	Cudeco	chairman	Peter	Hutchison	and	his	board	reported	that	they	are
“continuing	to	work	to	finalise	its	financial	statements”	and	the	company	expects	they	will	now
be	lodged	on	or	before	May	15.

Let’s	hope	the	company	keeps	its	latest	deadline.
Follow	CBD	on	Twitter.	Got	a	tip?	ckruger@fairfaxmedia.com.au

License	this	article

MEDIA	&	MARKETING WPP	AUNZ	LTD

Colin	Kruger
Colin	Kruger	is	a	business	reporter.	He	joined	the	Sydney	Morning	Herald	in	1999	as	its	technology
editor.	Other	roles	have	included	the	Herald's	deputy	business	editor	and	online	business	editor.

MORNING	&	AFTERNOON	NEWSLETTER
Delivered	Mon–Fri.

Your	email	address

SIGN	UP

By	signing	up	you	accept	our	privacy	policy	and	conditions	of	use

OUR	SITES

The	Age
The	Sydney	Morning	Herald
Brisbane	Times
The	Canberra	Times
WAtoday
The	Australian	Financial	Review
Domain
Traveller
Good	Food
Executive	Style
The	Store	by	Fairfax
Drive
Adzuna
RSVP
Essential	Baby
Essential	Kids
Weatherzone

CLASSIFIEDS

Tributes
Celebrations
Place	your	ad
Commercial	Real	Estate
Oneflare
Nabo

THE	AGE

Contact	&	support
Advertise	with	us
Newsletters
Accessibility	guide
Sitemap

PRODUCTS	&	SERVICES

Subscription	packages
Subscriber	benefits
My	account
Subscriptions	FAQs
Today's	Paper

FAIRFAX	MEDIA

Photo	sales
Purchase	front	pages
Fairfax	syndication
Fairfax	events
Fairfax	careers
Conditions	of	use
Privacy	policy
Press	Council

Copyright	©	2018

