Companies and Markets
Treasury Wine believers buoyed by China export boom
Simon Evans
614 words
17 April 2018
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
13
English
Copyright 2018. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
Australia's annual wine exports to China have soared through the $1 billion mark for the first time in another
positive sign for sharemarket darling Penfolds owner Treasury Wine Estates.

Industry body Wine Australia on Monday revealed that total wine exports by all players to China had jumped
by 51 per cent to $1.04 billion in the 12 months ended March 31.

Treasury Wines, which also sells the Wolf Blass brand, is a major driver of the export success to China as it
targets the growing middle class in that country. Its share price has quadrupled to $17.50 over the past four
years. Treasury Wines now has a sharemarket capitalisation of almost $13 billion.

Penfolds is the biggest selling Australian wine brand in China, followed by Rawsons Retreat, also owned by
Treasury, which is No.2. Wolf Blass sits at No.5.

The China jump also bodes well for US private equity giant The Carlyle Group, which two weeks ago
acquired the Accolade Wines business for $1 billion from fellow private equity firm CHAMP.

Carlyle aims to lift exports to China for the business, which owns premium brand Grant Burge and the Hardys
range, but does have a larger skew to lower-end commercial wines and bag-in-a-box cask wines through
labels such as Banrock Station.

Wine Australia chief executive Andreas Clark said on Monday that Australia's total exports for the 12 months
ended March climbed by 16 per cent to $2.65 billion. But sales to the US fell 7 per cent to $439 million. Sales
in the off-premise trade, which covers restaurants and bars, were down in the US. But the China export
figures were up strongly, having benefited from a drop in tariffs in January as part of the China-Australia Free
Trade Agreement.

Mr Clark said tariffs would be removed completely in January 2019, delivering an important competitive
advantage over producers from France, Italy and Spain. Chinese wine drinkers were increasingly looking to
consume wine at home, rather than in restaurants or business functions.

"There was very strong growth at all price points as imported wine becomes more approachable and is
increasingly consumed by middle-class drinkers and seen as suitable for consumption at informal gatherings
and while relaxing at home," Mr Clark said. The figures include Hong Kong and Macau, and mainland China.

Treasury Wines profits in the booming Asian region jumped 48 per cent in the first half of 2017-18, with profit
margins growing to 39.3 per cent.

Figures from IRI Worldwide for 2017 showed Australian sales in the off-trade market in the US declined by 1
per cent in value. But at the higher price points there were some encouraging rises. In the $US20 ($25) to
$US24.99 per bottle segment, sales were up 22 per cent.

The spotlight is on Treasury as it scours the US market for potential acquisitions in the premium wine
segment. Macquarie last week highlighted several potential acquisition targets, including family-owned Foley
Family Wine, Jackson Family Wines or Vintage Wines Estates.

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.The stockbroking house also said Treasury may be able to pick off a business from a conglomerate where
wine wasn't the main focus. It outlined one prospect as Altria Group's Ste Michelle.

Treasury is also going through a revamp of its US distribution channels in a big test for the company. It is
overhauling distribution in 15 states. Gunther Burghardt will on May 1 become executive vice-president of
operations for the Americas, in a role heavily focused on the supply chain for the US business.

Document AFNR000020180416ee4h00012

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.