News
Pot of gold on offer
RYAN KEEN ryan.keen@news.com.au
593 words
17 April 2018
Gold Coast Bulletin
GCBULL
GoldCoast
7
English
© 2018 News Limited. All rights reserved.
GOLD Coast Tourism has promised it won’t be resting on its laurels after the huge global exposure delivered
by staging the 21st Commonwealth Games.

Games TV coverage was broadcast to an estimated 1.5 billion people worldwide and Tourism Australia
managing director John O’Sullivan told the Bulletin he believed the marketing generated by the event was
worth hundreds of millions of dollars.

But Gold Coast Tourism executive director of corporate affairs and strategy Dean Gould said despite that
huge sugar hit of exposure “you can’t just sit back now and hope”.

“If you were putting it in rugby terms, the Games has put us through this enormous gap but there are still 20
metres to the tryline – and you have got to run it,” he said. “You can’t just go, ‘I could have scored then’.” Mr
Gould revealed Gold Coast Tourism had immediate plans in place to roll out visitor marketing campaigns
targeting the drive market and interstate tourists.

“The biggest audience for the Commonwealth Games is actually the Australian domestic market,” he said.

“We are the ones that love the Commonwealth Games the most because we win so many things. So that’s
probably the biggest TV audience for the Games and we want to capitalise on that and continue a really
strong push into the Australian domestic market.” From yesterday, Gold Coast Tourism had domestic
marketing campaigns underway. “It is lovely to have the international exposure – that is not insignificant – but
where Gold Coast Tourism bread is buttered is in the domestic market so we’ll be pushing our domestic
market very powerfully from April 16 onwards.” From July 1, a new interstate campaign done in conjunction
with Tourism and Events Queensland would be rolled out as well.

Mr Gould said a second key area Gold Coast Tourism would continue to focus on was attracting conference
and conventions and their higher-spending delegates. Upcoming major conferences include 7000 Chinese
delegates for the Infinitus pharmaceutical conference worth an estimated $40 million to the city. Others
include 1000 each for a Japanese business conference and Korean company. About 900 are booked in for a
national liquor retailers conference.

“(After the Commonwealth Games) we know a lot of these countries will take these messages back to their
organisations that this is a great place which can put on terrific events.” Mr O’Sullivan said in terms of the
advertising exposure of the Commonwealth Games, Tourism Australia’s recent cheeky star-studded ad
during the Super Bowl – pretending to be a remake of Crocodile Dundee – was worth about $100 million.

“The exposure from the Commonwealth Games will be in the hundreds of millions in terms of PR value.”
Figures estimated 672,000 visitors were attracted during the two weeks generating a $320 million economic
boost across Queensland.

Coast-based Federal Tourism Minister Steve Ciobo said he wouldn’t call the Games the best advertising
campaign money couldn’t buy: “We tipped in $330 million and the State Government tipped in $1.5 billion at
least. But what was the Commonwealth Games all about? As someone who has been there since day one of
the journey, yes, it’s about the two weeks but really what it was actually about was building infrastructure for

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.this city to last decades.“In five or 10 years time, Gold Coasters will look back on this as being the
springboard for our city. It’s a coming of age for our city.”

Document GCBULL0020180416ee4h0006f

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.