Learn	To	Invest
Stocks
ASX	Market	Report	Overseas	Market	Report	YMW	Issue	16	Newsletter	Archive	Research	Archive	Rating
Changes	Current	Ratings	Analyst	Searches	Corporate	Calendar	Upcoming	Dividends	Upcoming	Floats
Stock	Screener	ASX300	News	Digest	Our	Research	Methodology	Model	Income	Portfolio	Best	Stock	Ideas
Special	Reports
Articles	Archive
LICs
Research	Archive	Research	Methodology	Latest	Prices	Monthly	LIC	Reports
Credit
Credit	Research	Archive	Credit	Monthly	Credit	Latest	Prices
Funds
All	Analyst	Reports	Star	Ratings	Limitations	KiwiSaver	Reports	Fund	Screener	About	our	Categories
Funds	FAQ
ETFs
Research	Archive	Research	Methodology	Latest	Prices	Performance	Table	Model	Portfolio	Guide
Tools
Portfolio	Portfolio	Help	Stock	Screener	Alerting	Tool	Analyst	stock	searches	Fund	Screener
SMSFs
Video	Archive
Stocks	Credit	Funds	ETFs	SMSFs	Learn
Article	Archive
News	Stocks	Special	Reports	Funds	ETFs	Features	SMSFs	Learn
About
Advertise	Company	News	Company	Site	Glossary	Help	Privacy	Policy	Terms	and	Conditions
News
CBA	gold	medal	fundamentals	outweigh	the
headlines

Lex	Hall		|		18	Apr	2018

Share
Share

Tweet

Text	size		
		
		|		

Page	1	of	1

	

Investors	should	focus	on	the	bank’s	robust	intrinsic	value	rather	than	claims	of	adviser	misconduct,	says
Morningstar	senior	equity	analyst	David	Ellis.

The	banking	royal	commission	today	turned	its	focus	to	Australia’s	largest	lender,	Commonwealth	Bank	of

Australia	(ASX:CBA),	and	heard	from	one	executive	who	conceded	the	bank	was	a	“gold	medallist”	when	it
comes	to	charging	customers	without	providing	a	service	in	return.

But	while	the	headline-grabbing	tales	of	misconduct	may	titillate	the	daily	news	cycle	investors	must
remain	focus	on	the	intrinsic	value	of	Australian	banks	such	as	CBA,	says	Morningstar	Australia	analyst
David	Ellis.

Australian	lenders	benefit	from	wide	economic	moats	and	big	competitive	advantages,	Ellis	says.

Commonwealth	Bank	and	Westpac	Bank	(ASX:	WBC)	are	the	most	undervalued	of	Australia's	financial
institutions,	trading	18	per	cent	and	15	per	cent	below	fair	value	estimate	(FVE),	respectively.

National	Australia	Bank	(ASX:	NAB)	is	trading	10	per	cent	below	Morningstar's	FVE,	and	Australia	and
New	Zealand	Banking	Group	(ASX:	ANZ)	is	9	per	cent	below.

Market	News	and	Views
	
Sign	up	today	and	receive	our	free	Morning	Note	e-newsletter,	daily	in	your	inbox.

Please	provide	your	email	address

	 Sign	Up

Ellis	has	reiterated	his	positive	assessment	of	Australia’s	banks,	despite	this	week’s	news	of	high	rates	of
misconduct	within	its	wealth	operations.

"The	four	major	banks	benefit	from	strong	competitive	advantages	and	wide	economic	moats	[and	a
common]	solid	outlook	for	balance	sheet	growth,	bad	debts,	earnings	and	dividends,"	Ellis	says.

While	he	concedes	the	royal	commission	is	key	risk	factor,	“casting	a	long	shadow	over	the	major	banks",
he	believes	the	opportunities	outweigh	the	risks.
Risks	and	opportunities	less	clear-cut
The	following	lists	suggest	risks	outnumber	opportunities.	But	Ellis	insists	a	housing	collapse	or	recession
are	unlikely.	Banks'	mortgage	businesses	are	strong	enough	to	weather	a	national	house	price	fall	of	20
per	cent	or	more,	he	says.

"We	expect	an	orderly	correction	during	the	next	few	years	as	incomes	need	to	increase	relative	to	house
prices,	but	see	no	signs	of	a	collapse	in	house	prices.”

China	may	be	among	the	"risks"	list	below,	but	is	also	an	opportunity	because	of	its	economic	leadership
position	in	Asia.
Risks

Regulatory
Recession
Housing	collapse
China
Digital	disruption
Opportunities

Technology	leverage
Economic	recovery
Retirement	savings
Asia.

Ellis	reminds	investors	that	Australia	benefits	from	a	"high	quality	and	stable	banking	system,	supervised
by	APRA	[Australian	Prudential	Regulation	Authority]	with	financial	stability	well	managed	by	the	Reserve
Bank	of	Australia.

"Australian	major	banks	are	robust	and	resilient,	balance	sheets	are	strong,"	he	says,	with	strong	funding
profiles	and	"robust	ability	to	withstand	disruption".

That	said,	Ellis	acknowledges	the	seriousness	of	the	allegations	that	continue	to	emerge	at	the	royal
commission:	"But	bank	culture	needs	to	improve,”	he	says.

Earlier	today	Linda	Elkins,	executive	general	manager	of	CBA	division	Colonial	First	State,	faced	the
commission	amid	revelations	the	bank	paid	$118	million	in	refunds	to	customers.

“You’d	be	the	gold	medallist	if	ASIC	was	handing	out	medals	for	fee	for	no	service,”	counsel	assisting	the
commission	Mark	Costello	said.

“Yes,”	Ms	Elkins	replied.
More	from	Morningstar
•	Banks	stocks	to	survive	Royal	Commission	hit
•	Finding	Australia’s	next	investment	boom
•	Make	better	investment	decisions	with	Morningstar	Premium	|	Free	4-week	trial
	

Glenn	Freeman	is	a	Morningstar	senior	editor,	based	in	Sydney.

Lex	Hall	is	Morningstar's	content	editor.

©	2018	Morningstar,	Inc.	All	rights	reserved.	Neither	Morningstar,	its	affiliates,	nor	the	content	providers
guarantee	the	data	or	content	contained	herein	to	be	accurate,	complete	or	timely	nor	will	they	have	any
liability	for	its	use	or	distribution.	This	information	is	to	be	used	for	personal,	non-commercial	purposes
only.	No	reproduction	is	permitted	without	the	prior	written	consent	of	Morningstar.	Any	general	advice	or
'class	service'	have	been	prepared	by	Morningstar	Australasia	Pty	Ltd	(ABN:	95	090	665	544,	AFSL:
240892),	or	its	Authorised	Representatives,	and/or	Morningstar	Research	Ltd,	subsidiaries	of	Morningstar,
Inc,	without	reference	to	your	objectives,	financial	situation	or	needs.	Please	refer	to	our	Financial
Services	Guide	(FSG)	for	more	information	at	www.morningstar.com.au/s/fsg.pdf.	Our	publications,	ratings
and	products	should	be	viewed	as	an	additional	investment	resource,	not	as	your	sole	source	of
information.	Past	performance	does	not	necessarily	indicate	a	financial	product's	future	performance.	To
obtain	advice	tailored	to	your	situation,	contact	a	licensed	financial	adviser.	Some	material	is	copyright
and	published	under	licence	from	ASX	Operations	Pty	Ltd	ACN	004	523	782	("ASXO").	The	article	is
current	as	at	date	of	publication

Share
Share

Tweet

Text	size		
		
		|		

Premium	Pricing	Help	Advertising	Opportunities	Licensing	Opportunities	Glossary					FSG	Contact	Us
Careers	Research	Report	Disclosure
International	Sites:	United	States	Canada	China	France	Germany	Hong	Kong	Italy	The	Netherlands
Norway	Spain	U.K.
©	Copyright	2018	Morningstar,	Inc.	All	rights	reserved.	Please	read	our	Terms	of	Use	|	Privacy	Policy	|
Sitemap

