Business
Scarborough project a fair play for Woodside
PAUL GARVEY
623 words
18 April 2018
The Australian - Online
AUSTOL
English
© 2018 News Limited. All rights reserved.
Scarborough a fair play. Woodside Petroleum chief executive Peter Coleman says the company has already
had early discussions with potential customers interested in sourcing liquefied natural gas from its newly
acquired Scarborough project off Western Australia.

After releasing the company’s latest quarterly production report yesterday, Mr Coleman told The Australian
the integration of Scarborough into Woodside was making rapid progress.

“We’ve been up in Japan and China talking to potential buyers and they’re obviously very interested,” Mr
Coleman said.

“We’ve been talking to contractors, those that can participate in the building of the plant and the offshore, and
there’s keen interest in that area.

“The really good thing is we’ve been able to move it out of the deal team, which is by definition a limited team,
and it’s out into the broader team and to date the surprises have been more on the positive side rather than
the negative.”

Woodside formally completed the $US444 million ($572.7m) acquisition of ExxonMobil’s 50 per cent stake in
the large but remote Scarborough field on March 29, adding to the 25 per cent stake it bought from BHP in
September.

The company is proposing to incorporate Scarborough gas into its existing Pluto LNG plant, bringing a
meaningful growth option into a project pipeline that has long looked light-on. It appears to have leapfrogged
over the long-awaited Browse LNG project in Woodside’s list of development projects.

LNG prices have started to recover in recent months on the back of a strengthening oil price. A supply glut
that had been widely expected by many observers has also been comfortably absorbed by the market, thanks
largely to rising demand out of China for cleaner energy sources.

The improving market conditions were reflected in Woodside’s latest quarterly figures, which showed a slight
increase in output and a big improvement in revenue. The $US1.17 billion in revenue for the March quarter
was up from $989.7m in the December quarter and $US902.4m a year ago. Better-than-expected numbers
out of Pluto helped make up for slightly weaker progress in the ramp-up of the Wheatstone LNG project, in
which Woodside has a 13 per cent stake. Wheatstone’s second LNG train is due to produce its first LNG this
quarter.

Mr Coleman said the arrival of Scarborough into the company, along with the progress towards development
of its SNE oil project in Senegal, had added a spring to the step of Woodside employees.

“Being in the gym practising is nothing like being out on the field of play, so there’s a lot of anticipation in the
office now about the big game we have ahead of us,” he said.

Beyond exploring the technical merits of Scarborough, Mr Coleman also faces the task of convincing the
market of the project’s merits.

The growth plans are expected to be front and centre at Woodside’s annual investor day next month, where
new Woodside chief operating officer Meg O’Neill will also make her first public appearance.

Page1of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Analysts at both Macquarie and RBC yesterday both reiterated their “underperform” recommendations on
Woodside given the long-dated nature of the company’s growth projects.

“We do not currently carry a value contribution for Browse or for Scarborough with (a final investment
decision) still three to four years away, (front-end engineering and design) studies to be completed as well as
gas marketing and financing to be arranged. We think it is too early for investors to pay for this potential
growth,” RBC analyst Ben Wilson said.

Shares in Woodside closed 1.1 per cent higher at $30.72.

Document AUSTOL0020180418ee4i002v0

Page2of2©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.