Companies and Markets
Apple turning green on aluminium
Matthew Stevens
1,451 words
11 May 2018
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
32
English
Copyright 2018. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
When Apple Inc invites you in for a chat I suppose the smart thing is always to take your tie off, get relaxed
and get along in there.

That is just what happened when the owner of the world's most valuable brand invited the two oldest
competitors in aluminium to throw around some ideas about new technology and the different streams of
work that both were doing on reducing the industry's carbon footprint.

And the result of Apple's "facilitation" is that Rio Tinto subsidiary Alcan and America's recently bifurcated
aluminium legend, Alcoa, have formed a joint venture to develop and disseminate a new aluminium smelting
technology that produces no greenhouse gas.

The joint venture, to be called Elysis, will begin life with $C188 million ($196 million) of new equity, the
biggest individual chunks of which will be provided by the governments of Canada and Quebec, the province
most likely to host the first full-scale carbon-free smelter.

Each arm of the Canadian government will pump $C60 million and for its direct support Quebec has earned a
3.5 per cent equity stake in the new venture. Rio and Alcoa will equally own the balance of the business and,
having injected technology, patents and facilities in the business, they will collectively invest a further $55
million on progress to commercialisation of their new green technology. Apple, too, is putting its money where
its facilitation has been, "investing" $13 million and offering to provide further technical support to Elysis.

As it turns out, Elysis is the expanded iteration of an agreement forged last year to consolidate work being
done at Alcoa's technology base in Pittsburgh and in the Rio subsidiary's French research centre.

Rio's team has been working on something called "inert anode technology" and its efforts will now be
relocated to Elysis' home base in Canada.

But it appears that the breakthrough technology that has fathered this experiment in collaboration was
developed by Alcoa. The carbon-free process has been a work in progress at Alcoa's Pittsburgh centre since
2009 and it is being used to produce small qualities of metal there. The plan is to finish that work in the
joint-venture structure and the ambition is to end up with a technology that can be used in new smelters and
be retrofitted to old ones.

Alcoa will inject the technology and its patents into Elysis and, to calm the rising nationalism in the US, the
plan is that the joint venture will invest up to $C40 million in the US. The plan includes, for example, the
sourcing of proprietary anode and cathode from Alcoa's homeland.

Now, it isn't often that we raw materials guys get to offer a quote from the likes of Apple chief executive Tim
Cook, so we are certainly not going to miss the chance this potential industry game changer has offered.

"Apple is committed to advancing technologies that are good for the planet and help protect it for generations
to come," Cook said in the Rio statement that announced the birth of Elysis. "We are proud to be part of this
ambitious new project, and look forward to one day being able to use aluminium produced without direct
greenhouse gas emissions in the manufacturing of our products."

Page1of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Needless to say, Cook must here be talking only about so-called Scope 1 emissions, which account for any
and all greenhouse gases that are emitted in the actual manufacturing process.

Aluminium is often called solid electricity. That is because it is a metal wrought from alumina which in turn is
refined from bauxite. Both the refining and smelter process require very substantial levels of electricity as the
trigger for the necessary chemical reactions. And the greenhouse emissions made in generating the power
that is acquired by alumina and aluminium producers is described as Scope 2 emissions.

So unless your power source is entirely renewable and green, then your aluminium will never be entirely free
of contribution to the climate change issue. And even then, there is the issue of where you source alumina
and bauxite and how emissions-light their production might or might not be.

But emissions-zero metal is something that Rio people have been banging on about for the past two years or
so as the company finally started moved beyond the rehabilitation of its bungled $US38 billion investment of
Alcan and began moving to capture the potential premium that arrives with running what is already the
"cleanest" community of smelters in the world.

Rio bought Alcan for three reasons. At a tactical level it was a poison pill that aimed to deflect takeover
ambitions already privately flagged by BHP.

But at a strategic level it reflected a long-term confidence in aluminium as a second-phase beneficiary of the
middle-classing of China. And Alcan's world-class Canadian smelters were pretty much universally
hydro-powered.

Only a month ago Rio became the first producer to earn certification under the Aluminium Stewardship
Initiative. The idea there is to allow customers and their end users to be able to demonstrate a commitment to
a sustainable supply chain. And this level of certification will increasingly matter to companies like, well, Apple
as they market ever-more-sophisticated digital toys to an ever-more-aware and discerning cohort of
customers.

To give you some idea of the difference hydro-power makes to emissions outcomes, the average industry
Scope 1 and 2 emissions run at about 11.5 tonnes of carbon dioxide for every tonne of aluminium produced.
But Rio's Canadian smelter suite generates less that 4 tonnes of CO2 for every tonne of metal output.

Given that everything goes as marketed by the new joint venture, there is every chance Rio really will be in a
position to offer the market a zero-carbon product at some point after 2024.

It is a prospect that had both a Canadian Prime Minister and a Rio chief executive talking big overnight.

"This is a revolutionary smelting process that can deliver a significant reduction in carbon emissions," Rio
boss Jean-Sebastien Jacques said in the Rio statement. "It builds on the key role aluminium has to play in
driving human progress, by making products infinitely recyclable, stronger, lighter and more fuel efficient."

The excitement level was just as high for Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.

"Today's announcement will create and maintain thousands of jobs for Canadians, significantly reduce
Canada's carbon footprint, and further strengthen the aluminium industry in North America. It is a truly historic
day for the aluminum industry - and for all Canadian aluminum workers - who play such an important role in
our economy and our country's future."

And I will tell you this for nothing, it is pretty exciting to see a political leader somewhere getting hyperbolic
about the positives that the mining and metals business generate.

Stormy port

Melbourne's major container terminal operators are actively working through the legal options available to
force some level of accountability for the worrying retro walkout by its workers yesterday.

In the almost-immediate wake of the merger of the Maritime Union of Australia with its bigger and more-
militant brother, the CFMEU, Melbourne dockers were called off the job to add numbers to a rally in support
of construction union leader John Setka.

He and a colleague were (and are) active defending blackmail charges in Melbourne's Magistrates Court.

The recently returned fathers of waterfront reform at Patrick were quick to alert their workforce to the risk they
took in downing tools and it is understood that competitor DP World might either seek orders from the Fair
Work Commission or pursue compensation claims in the Federal Court. Patrick is also pondering whether to
seek damages from individual union officials.

Page2of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.Patrick told each worker that didn't that the illegal stoppage was "an unacceptable contravention of your
duties as an employee" and it warned that the letter "serves as a formal written warning".

"For the avoidance of doubt any further failure by you to act in accordance with your duties as an employee
will not be tolerated and may result in further disciplinary action being taken against you," the letter continued.

Workers were then invited to contact management if there "are any other matters which will affect your ability
to act in accordance with lawful and reasonable directions five to you ..."

In other words, management has asked workers to seek management support if they feel that they are being
bullied into pulling the same pointless, costly, illegal and job-threatening stunt at any point in the future.

Document AFNR000020180510ee5b0001e

Page3of3©2018Factiva,Inc.Allrightsreserved.